Storing Service Data
136
These transaction properties help provide a reliable way to modify different types of data (for 
example, simultaneously updating two financial account balances).
•	 Data replication: A database can offer data replication – a mechanism of duplicating data to 
additional instances, called replicas. Replication can help make the database more resilient to 
data losses (for example, when a database host becomes unavailable, data can be accessed on 
its replica) and reduce read latency (for example, when a user reads data from a replica that is 
located closer to them).
•	 Additional query capabilities: There are many databases (such as MySQL and PostgreSQL), 
that offer support for different query languages, such as SQL (https://en.wikipedia.
org/wiki/SQL).
Different types of databases can help you efficiently store and retrieve various types of data. Let’s review 
some of these popular database types:
•	 Key-value databases: These are databases that store data in key-value format, where each record 
contains a key (for example, user identifier) and a value (for example, user metadata). Keys and 
values are often represented as strings or byte arrays. Operations provided by key-value databases 
are often limited to key-based writes (store a value for the provided key) and key-based reads 
(read a value for the provided key). Because of their functional simplicity, key-value databases are 
among the most performant, since they don’t involve any complex data processing or indexing.
•	 Relational databases: These are databases that store the data as a collection of tables, each 
consisting of a set of rows and columns. Users can run SQL queries to retrieve the data from 
one or multiple tables, being able to join the data between them or perform complex searching 
based on a variety of conditions. Historically, relational databases have been the most popular 
across all database types due to their ability to execute queries of any complexity, as well as 
their ability to store various types of structured (having a well-defined schema that maps row 
data to table columns) data.
•	 Document databases: These are databases that store data in a document format, such as JSON 
or XML. Document databases don’t require you to define data schemas, so they’re a great fit for 
storing various kinds of differently structured documents (for example, a collection of YAML 
files containing movie metadata from multiple websites in different formats).
•	 Graph databases: These are databases that store information in the form of vertices – objects 
that have different properties (for example, user details), and edges – the relationships between 
vertices (for example, if user A is following user B). Graph databases are different from relational 
databases in terms of the types of read queries they offer: most graph databases support traversal 
queries (checking each vertex in a graph), connectivity queries (getting all vertices connected 
to the target one), and many other ones.
