Using MySQL to store our service data
139
•	 User ID: String
•	 Record ID: String
•	 Record type: String
•	 Rating value: Integer
At this point, we know which data we want to store in the database and can set up our database. We 
will use a Docker version of MySQL that you can run by executing the following command:
docker run --name movieexample_db -e MYSQL_ROOT_
PASSWORD=password -e MYSQL_DATABASE=movieexample -p 3306:3306 
-d mysql:latest
In our command, we set the password for the MySQL root user to password so that we can use it 
for testing. We also set the database name to movieexample and exposed it on port 3306 so that 
we can use it to access our MySQL database.
Let’s verify that our container started successfully. Run the following command to see the list of 
running Docker containers:
docker ps
The output should include a container with a movieexample_db name, a mysql:latest image, 
and an Up status.
The next step is to create our data schema. We will define it in a separate folder in our src directory, 
called schema. Create this directory and a schema.sql file in it, and add the following code to 
the newly created file:
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS movies (id VARCHAR(255), title 
VARCHAR(255), description TEXT, director VARCHAR(255));
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS ratings (record_id VARCHAR(255), 
record_type VARCHAR(255), user_id VARCHAR(255), value INT);
In our schema file, we define two tables, called movies and ratings. The tables that we just defined 
consist of VARCHAR(255) and TEXT columns. VARCHAR is a MySQL type for storing string data, 
and 255 is the maximal size of a column value. TEXT is another MySQL type that is often used for 
storing long text records, so we used it for storing movie descriptions that may contain long texts.
Now, let’s connect to our newly provisioned database and initialize our data schema. Run the following 
command inside the src directory of our project:
docker exec -i movieexample_db mysql movieexample -h localhost 
-P 3306 --protocol=tcp -uroot -ppassword < schema/schema.sql
