Using MySQL to store our service data
137
•	 Blob databases: These are databases for storing blob (binary large object) data, such as audio 
or video files. Blob records are generally immutable (their content never gets changed after a 
successful write), so blob databases are well optimized for append-only writes (such as writing 
new files), as well as blob reads (such as retrieving the contents of a large file).
We won’t go into the details of various types of databases because this is a topic for a separate book, but 
it is important to note that there is no one-size-fits-all solution among all of them, and each database 
provides a unique set of features that can be useful for solving a specific problem. For example, if 
the only purpose of your service is to store files, using a blob database would be sufficient, while a 
graph database could help with building a social network to store user relationship data. However, 
many use cases can be modeled using the relational model that powers relational databases: since it 
was introduced in 1970 by E.F. Codd, it has been used across the software development industry for 
nearly all types of problems. Popular relational databases, such as MySQL and PostgreSQL, remain the 
top-used software solutions, helping to build various types of applications, from tiny services running 
on a single host to large-scale clusters spanning hundreds of thousands of hosts. Because of the wide 
adoption and maturity of popular relational databases, many companies use them as a standard way 
to store various types of data. We are going to illustrate how to store our microservice data using a 
popular relational database: MySQL. 
Using MySQL to store our service data
In this section, we are going to provide a brief overview of MySQL and demonstrate how to write and 
read data from the microservices that we created in the previous chapters.
MySQL is an open source relational database that was created in 1995 and since then has become 
one of the top-used databases across the development industry, according to DB-Engines ranking 
(https://db-engines.com/en/ranking). It stores data as a set of tables, each consisting of 
rows and columns of predefined types (such as string, numeric, binary, or more), and allows to data 
via SQL queries. For example, assume you have the following data, stored as a table called movies:
id
title
director
922
New York Stories
John Jones
1055
Christmas Day
Ben Miles
1057
Sunny Weather 3
Ben Miles
Table 7.1 – Movie table example
A SQL query to get all movies filmed by a particular director would look as follows:
SELECT * FROM movies WHERE director = "Ben Miles"
