314
CHAPTER 12
Optimizations
Both cache lines are replicated because L1D (L1 data) is per core. Recall that in our
example, each goroutine updates its own variable: sumA on one side, and sumB on the
other side (figure 12.13).
Figure 12.13
Each goroutine updates its own variable.
Because these cache lines are replicated, one of the goals of the CPU is to guarantee
cache coherency. For example, if one goroutine updates sumA and another reads sumA
(after some synchronization), we expect our application to get the latest value.
 However, our example doesn’t do exactly this. Both goroutines access their own
variables, not a shared one. We might expect the CPU to know about this and under-
stand that it isn’t a conflict, but this isn’t the case. When we write a variable that’s in a
cache, the granularity tracked by the CPU isn’t the variable: it’s the cache line.
 When a cache line is shared across multiple cores and at least one goroutine is a
writer, the entire cache line is invalidated. This happens even if the updates are logi-
cally independent (for example, sumA and sumB). This is the problem of false sharing,
and it degrades performance.
NOTE
Internally, a CPU uses the MESI protocol to guarantee cache coher-
ency. It tracks each cache line, marking it modified, exclusive, shared, or
invalid (MESI).
One of the most important aspects to understand about memory and caching is that
sharing memory across cores isn’t real—it’s an illusion. This understanding comes
from the fact that we don’t consider a machine a black box; instead, we try to have
mechanical sympathy with underlying levels.
 So how do we solve false sharing? There are two main solutions.
 The first solution is to use the same approach we’ve shown but ensure that sumA
and sumB aren’t part of the same cache line. For example, we can update the Result
struct to add padding between the fields. Padding is a technique to allocate extra mem-
ory. Because an int64 requires an 8-byte allocation and a cache line 64 bytes long, we
need 64 – 8 = 56 bytes of padding:
type Result struct {
sumA int64
Core 0
L1D
sumA
sumB
...
Core 1
L1D
sumA
sumB
...
Goroutine 2
Goroutine 1
Update
Update
