340
CHAPTER 12
Optimizations
For example, the graph in figure 12.35 tells us that
during 30 seconds, 0.06 seconds were spent in the
decode method (*FetchResponse receiver). Of
these 0.06 seconds, 0.02 were spent in Record-
Batch.decode and 0.01 in makemap (creating a
map).
     We can also access this kind of information from
the web UI with different representations. For
example, the Top view sorts the functions per exe-
cution time, and Flame Graph visualizes the execu-
tion time hierarchy. The UI can even display the
expensive parts of the source code line by line.
NOTE
We can also delve into profiling data via a command line. However, we
focus on the web UI in this section.
Thanks to this data, we can get a general idea of how an application behaves:
Too many calls to runtime.mallogc can mean an excessive number of small
heap allocations that we can try to minimize.
Too much time spent in channel operations or mutex locks can indicate exces-
sive contention that is harming the application’s performance.
Too much time spent on syscall.Read or syscall.Write means the applica-
tion spends a significant amount of time in Kernel mode. Working on I/O buff-
ering may be an avenue for improvement.
These are the kinds of insights we can get from the CPU profiler. It’s valuable to
understand the hottest code path and identify bottlenecks. But it won’t determine
more than the configured rate because the CPU profiler is executed at a fixed pace
(by default, 10 ms). To get finer-grained insights, we should use tracing, which we dis-
cuss later in this chapter.
NOTE
We can also attach labels to the different functions. For example, imag-
ine a common function called from different clients. To track the time spent
for both clients, we can use pprof.Labels. 
HEAP PROFILING
Heap profiling allows us to get statistics about the current heap usage. Like CPU pro-
filing, heap profiling is sample-based. We can change this rate, but we shouldn’t be
too granular because the more we decrease the rate, the more effort heap profiling
will require to collect data. By default, samples are profiled at one allocation for every
512 KB of heap allocation.
 If we reach /debug/pprof/heap/, we get raw data that can be hard to read. How-
ever, we can download a heap profile using debug/pprof/heap/?debug=0 and then
open it with go tool (the same command as in the previous section) to navigate into
the data using the web UI.
Figure 12.35
Example call graph
