352
CHAPTER 12
Optimizations
cases, keeping it at 100 should be enough. However, if our application may face
request peaks leading to frequent GC and latency impacts, we can increase this value.
Finally, in the event of an exceptional request peak, we can consider using the trick of
keeping the virtual heap size to a minimum.
 The last section of this chapter discusses the impacts of running Go in Docker and
Kubernetes. 
12.10 #100: Not understanding the impacts of running Go in 
Docker and Kubernetes
Writing services with Go is the most common use, according to the 2021 Go developer
survey (https://go.dev/blog/survey2021-results). Meanwhile, Kubernetes is the most
widely used platform to deploy these services. It’s important to understand the impli-
cations of running Go in Docker and Kubernetes, to prevent common situations such
as CPU throttling.
 We mentioned in mistake #56, “Thinking concurrency is always faster,” that the
GOMAXPROCS variable defines the limit of OS threads in charge of executing user-level
code simultaneously. By default, it’s set to the number of OS-apparent logical CPU
cores. What does this mean in the context of Docker and Kubernetes?
 Let’s assume that our Kubernetes cluster is composed of eight-core nodes. When a
container is deployed in Kubernetes, we can define a CPU limit to ensure that an
application won’t consume all the host’s resources. For example, the following config-
uration limits the use of CPU to 4,000 millicpu (or millicores), so four CPU cores:
spec:
containers:
- name: myapp
image: myapp
resources:
limits:
cpu: 4000m
We may assume that when our application is deployed, GOMAXPROCS will be based on
these limits and hence will have a value of 4. But that won’t be the case; it is set to the
number of logical cores on the host: 8. So, what’s the impact?
 Kubernetes uses Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS) as a process scheduler. CFS is
also used to enforce CPU limits for Pod resources. When administrating a Kubernetes
cluster, an administrator can configure these two parameters:

cpu.cfs_period_us (global setting)

cpu.cfs_quota_us (setting per Pod)
The former defines a period and the latter a quota. By default, the period is set to 100
ms. Meanwhile, the default quota value is how much CPU time the application can
consume in 100 ms. The limit is set to four cores, which means 400 ms (4 × 100 ms).
Therefore, CFS will ensure that our application never consumes more than 400 ms of
CPU time for 100 ms.
