8
CHAPTER 1
Go and web applications
1.3
A quick introduction to HTTP
HTTP is the application-level communications protocol that powers the World Wide
Web. Everything that you see on a web page is transported through this seemingly sim-
ple text-based protocol. HTTP is simple but surprisingly powerful—since its definition
in 1990, it has gone through only three iterative changes. HTTP 1.1 is the latest ver-
sion, and HTTP 2.0 is in draft form.
 The first version of HTTP (HTTP 0.9), created by Tim Berners-Lee, was a simple
protocol created to help adoption of the World Wide Web. It allows a client to open a
connection to a server, issue an ASCII character string request, and terminate with a
carriage return (CRLF). The server then responds with only the HTML (no other
metadata).
 The explosion of features came with different implementations of HTTP. Eventu-
ally the multitude of features consolidated as HTTP 1.0 in 1996, followed by HTTP 1.1
in 1999, which is the most common version in use today. HTTP 2.0 (or HTTP/2) is in
draft, so in this book we’ll concentrate on HTTP 1.1 only.
 Let’s start defining what HTTP is first (this is my simplified definition): 
HTTP
HTTP is a stateless, text-based, request-response protocol that uses the
client-server computing model. 
Request-response is a basic way two computers talk to each other. The first computer
sends a request to the second computer and the second computer responds to that
request. A client-server computing model is one where the requester (the client) always
initiates the conversation with the responder (the server). As the name suggests, the
server provides a service to the client. In HTTP, the client is also known as the user-agent
and is often a web browser. The server is often called the web server.
HTTP is a stateless protocol. Each request from the client to the server returns a
response from the server to the client, and that’s all the protocol remembers. Subse-
quent requests to the same server have absolutely no idea what happened before. In
comparison, connection-oriented protocols like FTP or Telnet (also request-response
and client-server) create a persistent channel between the client and the server. Hav-
ing said that, HTTP 1.1 does persist connections to improve performance.
HTTP sends and receives protocol-related data in plain text (as opposed to sending
and receiving in binary), like many other internet-related protocols. The rationale
behind this is to allow you to see what goes on with the communications without a spe-
cialized protocol analyzer, making troubleshooting a lot easier. 
HTTP was originally designed to deliver HTML only and HTTP 0.9 had only one
method: GET. Later versions expanded it to be a generic protocol for distributed col-
laborative systems, including web applications, which we’ll get into next.
1.4
The coming of web applications 
Not long after the World Wide Web was introduced to the world at large, people
started to realize that just serving files is great but it’d be even better if the content
