17
Parts of a web app
Sometimes service objects or functions are used to manipulate the models, freeing the
model from being too bloated and enabling reuse of code. In this case, service objects
can be reused on different models and the same logic can be placed in single service
object instead of being copied in different models. Service objects, though, are not
strictly speaking part of the MVC pattern.
 As you may realize by now, web applications don’t necessarily need to follow the
MVC pattern. It’s perfectly fine to have the handler perform all the processing and
simply return a response to the client. It’s not necessary to split the work into control-
lers and models. 
1.9.2
Template engine
A template is code that can be converted into HTML that’s sent back to the client in an
HTTP response message. Templates can be partly in HTML or not at all. A template
engine generates the final HTML using templates and data. As you may recall, template
engines evolved from an earlier technology, SSI.
 There are two types of templates with different design philosophies: 
■
Static templates or logic-less templates are HTML interspersed with placeholder
tokens. A static template engine will generate the HTML by replacing these
tokens with the correct data. There’s little to no logic in the template itself. As
you can see, this is similar to the concepts from SSI. Examples of static template
engines are CTemplate and Mustache. 
Model-View-Controller pattern
The Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern is a popular pattern for writing web applica-
tions—so popular that it’s sometimes mistaken as the web application development
model itself. 
MVC was introduced in Smalltalk in the late 1970s (more than 10 years before the
World Wide Web and HTTP) at Xerox PARC. The MVC pattern divides a program into
three parts: model, view, and controller. The model is a representation of the under-
lying data, the view is a visualization of the model for the user, and the controller uses
input from the user to modify the model. When the model changes, the view updates
automatically to show the latest visualization.
Although originally developed for the desktop, it became popular for writing web ap-
plications, and many web application frameworks—including Ruby on Rails, CodeIg-
niter, Play, and Spring MVC—use it as their foundation pattern. The model is often
mapped to a database using structures or objects, the views are the returned HTML,
and the controllers route the requests and manage access to the models.
Many novice programmers who build their web applications with MVC-based web ap-
plication frameworks often mistake the MVC pattern as the only way to develop web
applications. In fact, web applications are simply applications that interact with users
over the HTTP protocol, and any pattern (or no pattern) that allows such applications
to be written can be used. 
