9
HTTP request
served was dynamically created. One of the early attempts to do this was the Common
Gateway Interface (CGI). 
 In 1993, the National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA) wrote a
specification for calling command-line executable programs called the CGI. The NCSA
included it in its popular NCSA httpd. Despite its name, it never became an internet
standard.
CGI is a simple interface that allows a web server to interface with a program that’s
running separately and externally to the web server process. This program, usually
called a CGI program, can be written in any language (hence, common), and in the ear-
lier years that was mostly Perl. Input to the CGI program is done through environment
variables, and anything the CGI program produces into standard output is returned to
the client through the server.
 Another technology from the same period is server-side includes (SSI), which are direc-
tives you can include in an HTML file. These directives are executed when the HTML file
is requested and the contents from the execution of these directives are included in the
spot where the directive was, before the final content is delivered to the client. One of
the most popular uses of SSI is to include a frequently used file in another, or to embed
header and footer snippets that are common throughout the site.
 As an example, the following code includes the contents of the navbar.shtml file in
the location you placed the directive: 
<html>
  <head><title>Example SSI</title></head>
  <body>
    <!--#include file="navbar.shtml" -->
  </body>
</html>
The eventual evolution of SSI was to include more complex code in the HTML and use
more powerful interpreters. This pattern grew into highly successful engines for
building sophisticated web applications such as PHP, ASP, JSP, and ColdFusion. This
also became the basis for web template engines like Mustache, ERB, Velocity, and
many others.
 As you can see, web applications originated as delivery of customized, dynamic
content to the user through HTTP. To figure out how web applications operate, you
need to know how HTTP works and understand HTTP requests and responses.
1.5
HTTP request
HTTP is a request-response protocol, so everything starts with a request. The HTTP
request, like any HTTP message, consists of a few lines of text in the following order:
1
Request-line 
2
Zero or more request headers
3
An empty line
4
The message body (optional)
