104
CHAPTER 4
Handling errors and panics
function appears inside the OpenCSV function. This deferred function is designed to
do three things:
Trap any panics.
Make sure that if a panic occurs, the file is closed. This is considered good prac-
tice even though in this context it may be redundant.
Get the error from the panic and pass it back by using the regular error-
handling mechanism.
One detail of the declaration of OpenCSV is worth mentioning: we label the return val-
ues in the function declaration. That makes it possible to refer to the file and err
variables inside the closure, and ensures that when err is set to the panic’s error, the
correct value is returned.
 As we’ve shown, defer is a powerful and useful way of dealing with panics, as well
as reliably cleaning up. As we close out this technique, here are a few useful guidelines
for working with deferred functions:
Put deferred functions as close to the top of a function declaration as possible.
Simple declarations such as foo := 1 are often placed before deferred functions.
More-complex variables are declared before deferred functions (var myFile
io.Reader), but not initialized until after.
Although it’s possible to declare multiple deferred functions inside a function,
this practice is generally frowned upon.
Best practices suggest closing files, network connections, and other similar
resources inside a defer clause. This ensures that even when errors or panics
occur, system resources will be freed.
In the next technique, you’ll take one more step in handling panics and learn how to
reliably prevent panics on goroutines from halting a program.
4.2.4
Panics and goroutines
So far, we haven’t talked much about one of Go’s most powerful features: goroutines.
You start goroutines by using the go keyword; if you have a function called run, you
can start it as a goroutine like this: go run. To quote the Go Programming Language
Specification, the go statement “starts the execution of a function call as an indepen-
dent concurrent thread of control, or goroutine, within the same address space”
(http://golang.org/ref/spec#Go_statements). More simply, you can think of it as run-
ning a function on its own thread, but without having access to that thread.
Goroutines beneath the hood
The implementation of goroutines is a little more sophisticated than just running a
function on its own thread. The Go Concurrency Wiki page (https://github
.com/golang/go/wiki/LearnConcurrency) provides a big list of articles that dive into
various aspects of Go’s CSP-based concurrency model.
