111
Summary
In this example, you define a simple function that satisfies the GoDoer type (it has no
parameters and no return value). Then when you call safely.Go(message), it exe-
cutes your message function in a new goroutine, but with the added benefit of trap-
ping any panics. Because message does panic, running this program provides the
following output:
$ go run safely_example.go
Outside goroutine
Inside goroutine
2015/04/08 08:28:00 Panic in safely.Go: Oops!
Instead of the panic stopping the program execution, safely.Go traps and logs the
panic message.
This particular library might not suit your exact needs, but it illustrates a good prac-
tice: construct libraries so that a panic on a goroutine doesn’t have the surprising or
unintended result of halting your program.
 Go’s provision of both an error-handling system and a runtime panic system is ele-
gant. But as you’ve seen in this section, panics tend to arise in surprising situations. If
you forget to plan for them, you can find yourself mired in difficult debugging situa-
tions. That’s why we’ve spent so much time discussing remedial techniques here—and
why we suggest preventative no-brainer techniques like safely.Go instead of relying
on developers to remember to do the right thing.
4.3
Summary
Let’s be honest: there’s nothing glamorous about error handling. But we firmly
believe that one of the traits that distinguishes a good programmer from a great pro-
grammer is the way the developer writes error-handling code. Great programmers are
mindful of protecting the system against bugs and failures.
 That’s why we spent an entire chapter covering the details of the error and panic
systems in Go, and providing techniques for handling common situations. We showed
you best practices for providing meaningful data with errors and how such techniques
extend to issuing panics. And we wrapped up with a long look at panics and gorou-
tines. We covered these topics:
Understanding Go’s patterns for error handling
Using error variables
Closures help here
Instead of using a named function such as message, you could use a closure. A clo-
sure allows you to access variables that are in scope, and can be used to sidestep
the fact that GoDoer doesn’t accept any parameters. But if you do this, beware of
race conditions and other concurrency issues!
