91
TECHNIQUE 16
Minimize the nils
When an error occurs, both an empty string and an error message are returned. A
savvy library user can carefully use the preceding code without having to add a lot of
explicit error handling. In our contrived Concat case, returning an empty string
makes sense. If you have no data to concatenate, but the return value’s contract says
you’ll return a string, an empty string is the kind of thing that one would expect.
TIP
When you’re creating errors, Go has two useful assistive functions. The
errors.New function from the errors package is great for creating simple new
errors. The fmt.Errorf function in the fmt package gives you the option of
using a formatting string on the error message. Go developers use these two
functions frequently.
By constructing Concat this way, you’ve done your library users a favor. The savvy
library user who doesn’t particularly care about the error case can now streamline the
code, as shown in the next listing. 
func main() {
     args := os.Args[1:]
     result, _ := Concat(args...)
     fmt.Printf("Concatenated string: '%s'\n", result)
}
Just as before, you take the command-line arguments and pass them to Concat. But
when you call Concat, you don’t wrap it in an if statement to handle the error.
Because Concat is authored in such a way that it returns a usable value even when an
error occurs, and because the presence or absence of the error doesn’t impact the
task at hand, you can avoid having to do an extra error check. Instead of wrapping the
code in an if/else block, you ignore the error and work with result as a string.
 When your context requires you to detect that an error occurred and respond
accordingly, this pattern still facilitates that. You can still capture the error value and
figure out what went wrong and why, so the pattern of returning both an error
and a usable value makes it easier for your library users to write code that best fits
their use case.
 It’s not always desirable, or even possible, to return non-nil values with every error.
If no useful data can be constructed under a failure condition, returning nil may be
preferable. The rule of thumb is that if a function can return a useful result when it
errs, then it should return one. But if it has nothing useful to return, it should send
back nil.
 Finally, it’s important for you to make your code’s behavior easily understood by
other developers. Go rightly emphasizes writing concise but useful comments atop
every shared function. Documenting how your Concat function behaves should look
something like the following listing.
Listing 4.4
Relying on good error handling
Passes the values of batch
