92
CHAPTER 4
Handling errors and panics
 
// Concat concatenates a bunch of strings, separated by spaces.
// It returns an empty string and an error if no strings were passed in.
func Concat(parts ...string) (string, error) {
    //…
}
This brief comment follows the Go convention for commenting and makes it clear what
happens under normal operation as well as what happens under an error condition.
 If you’re coming from a background that involves languages like Java or Python,
the error system may at first seem primitive. There are no special try/catch blocks.
Instead, convention suggests using if/else statements.  Most errors that are returned
are often of type error. Developers new to Go sometimes express concern that error
handling seems clunky.
 Such concerns vanish as developers get used to the Go way of doing things. Go’s
favoring of convention over language syntax pays off, as code is simpler to read and
write. But we’ve noticed a surprising pattern with Go: whereas languages such as Java
and Python favor developing specific error or exception types, Go developers rarely
create specific error types.
 This is no doubt related to the fact that many Go core libraries use the error type
as is. As Go developers see it, most errors have no special attributes that would be bet-
ter conveyed by a specific error type. Consequently, returning a generic error is the
simplest way to handle things. Take, for example, the Concat function. Creating a
ConcatError type for that function has no compelling benefit. Instead, you use the
built-in errors package to construct a new error.
 This simple error handling is often the best practice. But sometimes it can be use-
ful to create and use specific error types.
TECHNIQUE 17
Custom error types
Go’s error type is an interface that looks like the following listing.
type error interface {
     Error() string
}
Anything that has an Error function returning a string satisfies this interface’s con-
tract. Most of the time, Go developers are satisfied working with errors as the error
type. But in some cases, you may want your errors to contain more information than a
simple string. In such cases, you may choose to create a custom error type.
PROBLEM
Your function returns an error. Important details regarding this error might lead users
of this function to code differently, depending on these details.
Listing 4.5
Documenting returns under error conditions
Listing 4.6
The error interface
