247
TECHNIQUE 65
Communicating over RPC with protocol buffers
fmt.Println(u.GetName())
fmt.Println(u.GetId())
fmt.Println(u.GetEmail())
Protocol buffers are ideal when you need to pass messages between your microservices
and are trying to limit the amount of time used to pass the message.
TECHNIQUE 65
Communicating over RPC with protocol buffers
Communicating requires more than just the payload passed between two endpoints.
Communication includes the manner in which the payload is transferred. REST has cer-
tain semantics it enforces, which include a path and an HTTP verb, and are resource-
based. At times, the semantics of REST aren’t desired—for example, for an API call to
restart a server. That’s an operation, and at times operation-based semantics fit.
 An alternative is to use a remote procedure call (RPC) instead. With an RPC, a pro-
cedure is executed in a subroutine that’s often in a remote location. This is often
another service altogether. The calls aren’t tied to the semantics of the medium and
are more closely related to executing a function on the remote system.
 One of the potential issues of RPC is that both sides communicating with each
other need to know about the procedure being executed. This is different from REST,
in which the details of the communicated payload are enough. Knowing about the
procedure can make working with RPC, especially when services are written in multi-
ple languages, seem more difficult.
PROBLEM
How can you communicate over RPC in a manner that’s portable across programming
languages?
SOLUTION
Use gRPC and protocol buffers to handle defining the interfaces, generating the cross-
language code, and implementing the RPC communications.
DISCUSSION
gRPC (www.grpc.io) is an open source, high-performance RPC framework that can use
HTTP/2 as a transport layer. It was developed at Google and has support for Go, Java,
Python, Objective-C, C#, and several other languages. Given the language support,
you’ll notice both server-side languages and languages used for building mobile appli-
cations. gRPC can be used for communication between mobile devices and supporting
services.
 gRPC uses code generation to create the messages and handle parts of the commu-
nication. This enables the communication to easily work between multiple languages,
as the interfaces and messages are generated properly for each language. To define
the messages and RPC calls, gRPC uses protocol buffers, as the following listing shows.
Properties are pointers to values. The 
generated code has methods returning a 
value for each property that starts with Get. 
Use these to get the passed values.
