236
CHAPTER 10
Communication between cloud services
 In this chapter, you’ll first learn about a microservice architecture and how the net-
work can become a bottleneck or cause performance slowdowns when these services
communicate. From there, you’ll learn techniques that can speed up REST communi-
cations—in particular, JSON communications. Then you’ll explore communication
techniques other than REST and JSON that can provide an alternative approach.
 After this chapter, you’ll be able to move beyond the REST communication tech-
niques covered in this book and into faster alternatives used by microservices operat-
ing quickly and at scale.
10.1
Microservices and high availability
Applications built with a microservice architecture are created as collections of inde-
pendently deployable services. The rise of complex systems, the desire to indepen-
dently scale parts of an application, and the need to have applications that are less
brittle and more resilient have led to the rise of these microservices. Examples of
microservices include configuration manager applications such as etcd, or applica-
tions that transcode media from one format to another. Microservices tend to have
the following characteristics:
Perform a single action. For example, store configuration or transcode media
from one format to another.
Elastic and can be horizontally scaled. As load on a microservice changes, it can
be scaled up or down as needed.
Resilient to failures and problems. The service can be deployed so that it
doesn’t go offline, even when instances of the application have problems.
This is similar to and inspired by the UNIX philosophy of Do one thing and do it well.
 Imagine that you’re building a service that transcodes media from one format to
another. A user can upload media, the format is transcoded, and later the media in
the new format is available for download. This could be built as a monolithic applica-
tion in which all elements are part of the same application, or as microservices with
different functional parts that are their own applications.
 A simple transcoding application built using microservices is illustrated in figure 10.1.
User
User
interface
API server
Message queue
Transcoder
Notifications
File storage
Each part of a transcoding
application is a separate
microservice that
communicates with
other parts via APIs.
Figure 10.1
A simple transcoding application broken into microservices
