244
CHAPTER 10
Communication between cloud services
10.2.2 Moving beyond REST
Although REST is common and usable for end-user-facing APIs, alternatives may be
faster and more efficient for communication between your microservices. Given the
rise of microservices, the amount of communication between them, and the manner
in which network communication can be a bottleneck, exploring other options is
worthwhile.
 The network bottleneck has become enough of an issue that companies that oper-
ate on a large scale, such as Google and Facebook, have innovated new technologies
to speed up communication between microservices.
TECHNIQUE 64
Using protocol buffers
JSON and XML are commonly used to serialize data. These formats are fairly easy to
use and the transfer format is easy to read, but they’re not optimized for transport
over a network or for serialization. 
PROBLEM
What formats that are optimized for network transfer and serialization are available
for use in Go applications?
SOLUTION
Some more recent formats, including protocol buffers (a.k.a. protobuf) by Google
and Apache Thrift and originally developed at Facebook, are faster in network trans-
fer and serialization. These are available in Go, along with numerous other languages.
DISCUSSION
Protocol buffers, by Google, are a popular choice for a high-speed transfer format.
The data in the messages being transferred over the network is smaller than XML or
JSON and it can be marshaled and unmarshaled faster than XML and JSON as well.
The transfer method isn’t defined by protocol buffers. They can be transferred on a
filesystem, using RPC, over HTTP, via a message queue, and numerous other ways. 
 Google provides support for working with protocol buffers in C++, C#, Go, Java, and
Python. Other languages, such as PHP, have third-party libraries that provide support.
 A protocol format is defined in a file. It contains the structure of the message and
can be used to automatically generate the needed code. The following listing contains
an example of the file user.proto.
package chapter10;
message User {
  required string name = 1;
  required int32 id = 2;
  optional string email = 3;
}
Listing 10.7
Protocol buffer file
Protocol buffers have package names used to avoid naming 
collisions. These are different from Go packages, but the name 
will be used when the Go code is generated.
A message is an aggregate of fields and 
other messages. It’s represented in a Go 
application by generated code.
The field name is a required string. 
The “= 1” is the unique tag in the 
binary encoding for the field.
A required int32. Protocol buffers can 
represent other types including int64, 
float32, and float64.
Some
fields
can be
optional.
