242
CHAPTER 10
Communication between cloud services
DISCUSSION
Reflection in Go is fairly fast. It does allocate memory that needs to be garbage-
collected, and there’s a small computational cost. When using optimized generated
code, those costs can be reduced, and you can see a performance improvement.
 Several packages are designed to do this. In listing 10.4 you’ll look at the package
github.com/ugorji/go/codec, which is designed to work with Binc, MessagePack,
and Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) in addition to JSON. Binc,
MessagePack, and CBOR are alternative data exchange formats, though none is as
popular as JSON.
//go:generate codecgen -o user_generated.go user.go
package user
type User struct { 
     Name  string `codec:"name"`
     Email string `codec:",omitempty"`
}
A struct marked up for the codec package is almost the same as the json package. The
difference is in the name codec.
 To generate code, the codecgen command needs to be installed. This can be done
as follows:
$ go get -u github.com/ugorji/go/codec/codecgen
After codecgen is installed, you can use it to generate code on this file, named user.go,
by executing the following command:
$ codecgen -o user_generated.go user.go
The output file is named user_generated.go. In the generated file, you’ll notice that
two public methods have been added to the User type: CodecEncodeSelf and Codec-
DecodeSelf. When these are present, the codec package uses them to encode or
decode the type. When they’re absent, the codec package falls back to doing these at
runtime.
 When the codecgen command is installed, it can be used with go generate. go
generate will see the first comment line of the file, which is specially formatted for it,
and execute codecgen. To use go generate, run the following command:
$ go generate ./...
Listing 10.4
A struct annotated for codec
codec can’t generate code 
for main packages. Here the 
user functionality is in the 
user package.
The User struct is annotated 
for codec instead of JSON
The Name property will be 
found as “name” in the JSON 
file. The difference is the 
case on the name.
The codec annotation
will omit Email when
it generates JSON
output and the Email
value is empty.
A code comment for 
the go generate 
command to know 
how to generate code 
from this file
