237
Communicating between services
In this application, media is uploaded through the user interface to the API server. The
API server puts the media in the file store and places a job to transcode the media
into a message queue. Transcoders pull the job from the message queue, transcode
the media into a new format, place the new file into file storage, and place a job
into the queue to notify the user that the transcoding is complete. From the user inter-
face, the user can retrieve the transcoded file. The user interface communicates with
the API server to retrieve the file from storage.
 Each of these microservices can be written in a different programming language,
reused on different applications, and may even be consumed as a service. For exam-
ple, file storage could be an object storage consumed as software as a service.
 Scaling each of these services depends on the needs of the service. For example,
the transcoder service can scale depending on how much media needs to be
transcoded. The API server and notifications service can scale differently from the
transcoder, depending on the appropriate amount of resources they need.
 Users have the expectation that services never go offline. The days of maintenance
windows during which services aren’t available are in the past. Accidental outages can
lose user trust and reduce income. One of the advantages of microservices is that each
service can be made highly available in a method most appropriate for that service.
For example, keeping an API server highly available is different from keeping a mes-
sage queue highly available.
10.2
Communicating between services
One of the key elements in a microservice architecture is communication between the
microservices. If not well done, this can become a bottleneck in the performance of
an application.
 In the transcoding example in figure 10.1, four microservices are communicating
with each other when uploading a new piece of media to be transcoded. If these used
REST to communicate and the communications were over TLS, which is typical, a sig-
nificant amount of time would be spent in network communications.
 The performance of communications becomes more important when you use an
increasing number of microservices. Companies such as Google, which are known for
using microservice architectures, have gone so far as to create new, faster ways to com-
municate between microservices and build their own networking layer that outper-
forms what’s being sold in the market.
 Faster communication is something you can bring to your applications. As you’ll
see in this chapter, it isn’t that complicated to implement.
10.2.1 Making REST faster
REST is the most common form of communication used in web and cloud services.
Although transferring representational state data over HTTP is common, it’s not effi-
cient or as fast as other protocols. Most setups aren’t optimized out of the box, either.
This often makes communication a place to speed up application performance.
