178
CHAPTER 7
Serving and receiving assets and forms
know that this command uses os.Walk, which doesn’t walk symlinks. The go build
command builds a binary normally. This binary will include the rice-built Go files
containing the virtual filesystem.
TIP
Using minification techniques on the files being embedded, such as
removing unneeded whitespace from CSS and JavaScript files, can reduce the
size of the Go binary that’s generated.
The go.rice package can be used with templates. The following listing provides an
example of loading a template from a box.
box := rice.MustFindBox("templates")
templateString, err := box.String("example.html")
if err != nil {
    log.Fatal(err)
}
The go.rice package provides other helpers for the process of working with embed-
ded files. The documentation at https://github.com/GeertJohan/go.rice gets into
the specifics of what you can do with the helper functionality.
TECHNIQUE 43
Serving from an alternative location
At times you’ll want to store and serve the files separately from the application. A com-
mon example is serving a web application’s JavaScript, CSS, and other assets from a
content delivery network (CDN). 
PROBLEM
Instead of serving files through the same server as your application, you want to serve
files through an alternative location. The alternative location needs to work with mul-
tiple environments such as your production, testing, and development environments.
SOLUTION
Serve the files from alternative locations, such as a CDN in production. For each envi-
ronment, manage the deployment of files alongside the application and pass the loca-
tion into the application as configuration. Use the location within your template files
to tell browsers where to get the files from.
DISCUSSION
In each environment, you’ll want to have a copy or a representative copy of the appli-
cation’s assets. Although these files may be served separately from the application
pages, they shouldn’t be used from a single source for all environments. This clean
separation, illustrated in figure 7.2, allows any testing environments to be full testing
environments, allows developers to be creative in development environments, and
Listing 7.8
Templates as embedded files
Retrieves the template, which can be
used with template Parse functions,
as a string from the box
Gets a box
pointing to a
templates
directory
