180
CHAPTER 7
Serving and receiving assets and forms
This rudimentary example takes a command-line argument for a location and uses it
within a template. When no value is passed into the application, a default is used.
 This example serves to illustrate the idea. In production software, you’d use some-
thing more complicated:
1
Pass the location in as configuration. See chapter 2 for multiple ways you can do
this, including configuration files, etcd, and command-line arguments.
2
If no value is passed in, it should be logged and possibly cause a panic. The lack
of a configuration value shouldn’t allow production, and testing before that, to
serve content pointing to an invalid URL.
3
The location can be attached to a global configuration object and reused across
responses in the application.
If the server handling these files is only serving the files, it should be optimized for
serving static files. For example, if you’re using an Apache web server, you can turn off
modules you don’t need.
 HTTP/2, the most recent version of the HTTP specification, provides features that
may cause you to consider serving files along with application pages. For example,
when a browser requests a page, an HTTP/2 server can respond with the page and any
associated files for the page. The associated files can be sent to the browser even before
it requests them, and all of the files can be sent over the original connection requesting
the page. For this to happen, the server needs to serve the application and files.
NOTE
The HTTP/2 specification is documented in RFC 7540 by the Internet
Engineering Task Force. You can read it at https://tools.ietf.org/html/
rfc7540.
Serving content is only half of the process for modern interactive applications. To
complete the cycle, the server needs to handle interaction from users.
7.2
Handling form posts
Working with HTML forms and POST or PUT requests in general is common in web
applications and websites. Go provides much of what you need in the http package
within the standard library. Although the functionality is available under the hood, it’s
not always obvious how you should use it. The following patterns highlight methods
for working with data, whether it’s a form submission or a multipart POST or PUT
request.
7.2.1
Introduction to form requests
When a request is made to a server and it contains form data, that request isn’t pro-
cessed into a usable structure by default. Most of the request handling across most Go
programs doesn’t need to work with form data, so it’s a feature you need to opt into.
Opting in is fairly straightforward. The following example shows the simplest way to
parse form data and get access to it:
