189
TECHNIQUE 48
Incrementally saving a file
such as the widely used libmagic. At the time of writing, several Go packages provide
bindings to libmagic, making it easy to use from within Go.
NOTE
A specification to sniff MIME types is available at http://mimesniff.spec
.whatwg.org/.
7.2.3
Working with raw multipart data
The previous file-handling techniques work well when you’re dealing with small files
or files as a whole, but limit your ability to work with files while they’re being
uploaded. For example, if you’re writing a proxy and want to immediately transfer the
file to another location, the previous techniques will cache large files on the proxy.
 The Go standard library provides both high-level helper functions for common
file-handling situations, and lower-level access that can be used for the less common
ones or when you want to define your own handling.
 The handler function for a request is executed when a request begins, rather than
when a request is completed. Many requests happen quickly, and the helper functions
account for any delay. If you work with, for example, large files, you have an opportu-
nity to act while uploads are happening.
 Instead of using the ParseMultipartForm method on the Request object inside
an http handler function, you can access the raw stream of the request by accessing
the underlying *multipart.Reader object. This object is accessible by using the
MultipartReader method on the Request.
 The following technique uses the lower-level multipart handling. This illustrates
how it works in addition to handling some common cases.
TECHNIQUE 48
Incrementally saving a file
Imagine that you’re building a system meant to handle a lot of large file uploads. The
files aren’t stored on your API server but are instead stored in a back-end service
designed for files. Using ParseMultipartForm is going to put those files into the tem-
porary files directory on your API server while the uploads are in progress. To support
large file uploads with ParseMultipartForm handling, your server would need a large
disk cache for the files and careful handling to make sure it doesn’t get full while par-
allel uploads are happening.
PROBLEM
You want to save the file, as it’s being uploaded, to a location of your choice. That loca-
tion could be on the server, on a shared drive, or on another location altogether.
SOLUTION
Instead of using ParseMultipartForm, read the multipart data from the request as it’s
being uploaded. This can be accessed with the MultipartReader method on the
Request. As files and other information are coming in, chunk by chunk, save and pro-
cess the parts rather than wait for uploads to complete.
