112
CHAPTER 7
Testing microservices
installed via homebrew if you are using macOS. Once you have mockery available in
your system, navigate to your service (e.g., the order folder), then execute the follow-
ing command/:
mockery –-all –-keeptree
You will see autogenerated files, such as *_mock.go, for each interface that contains
the mocks. Instead of trying to mock method arguments and return values, mockery
does that for us, and we can use those mocks in our unit tests. When they are needed,
we can re-create mocks whenever we update an interface or introduce a new one. The
flow is the same after generating mocks so that you can control their behavior and test
a SUT. Now that we understand how to test individual system modules with unit test-
ing methodology, let’s look at how to test the interaction between two modules to ver-
ify behavior.
7.3
Integration testing
In integration testing, we aim to test different modules together to verify they work as
expected. For example, we have a DB adapter, and we can test if this adapter works
well with a running MySQL database. You may ask, “Why do we want to access a real
database?” Because we want to verify our codebase still works in case of a change in
code or a version change on the DB side. This section will use Testcontainers
(https://www.testcontainers.org/) to spin up a MySQL instance and pass the Testcon-
tainers’ URL to a DB adapter. Let’s look at how to structure our test suite and initialize
a MySQL instance using Testcontainers.
7.3.1
Test suite preparation
Test suite libraries help you prepare before and after tests and allow you to run your
tests with those test preparations. In this book, we use suite (https://github.com/
stretchr/testify/tree/master/suite), which comes from testify. You may want to act on
the following cases in a test suite:
Before each test—You may want to create a mock before each test instead of man-
ually defining that mock on each test function. We can run an action before
each test by adding a method named TestSetupTest to our test suite.
After each test—Let’s say you interact with files and folders on each test and want
to delete them to have a new state on the next test. We can activate such an
action by implementing TestTearDownSuite.
Before all the tests—We prepare resources for all tests to use because they use a shared
resource. For example, we can initialize a database via Testcontainers before
running the tests. This action can be activated by implementing TestSetupSuite.
After all the tests—Let’s say you initialized your DB instance and want to destroy it
right after you finish all the tests. We can trigger this action by adding a method
named TestTearDownSuite.
