123
7.5
Test coverage
You can now navigate to the e2e folder and execute the following test command to see
how it works:
go test -run "^TestCreateOrderTestSuite$"
Notice we provide a regex to test the run command and start executing from
TestCreateOrderTestSuite, the test suite runner.
 To wrap up the end-to-end test, we simply run our application stack and run our
tests against it, thanks to Testcontainers providing a good abstraction for Docker Com-
pose that lets us run our stack via service definitions. This kind of test may take longer
because it provisions a real system to verify features. Now that we have seen all the
major test strategies for microservice architecture, let’s look at how we can measure
the coverage of our tests for the entire application.
7.5
Test coverage
The test coverage operation’s primary motivation is to understand the missing test
cases for production code. Code coverage is a strategy to detect how much of the
application’s entire codebase is covered by tests. Golang has very good built-in fea-
tures for testing, and coverage can be automatically handled during test execution
with the -cover parameter:
go test -cover ./…
Once you execute this command, you can see the coverage information for each pack-
age among test execution status:
ok      
➥ github.com/huseyinbabal/microservices/order/internal/application/core/a
➥ pi       0.274s  coverage: 93.3% of statements
At the end of the line, you can see the coverage information of that package, which
mostly describes your confidence level in the codebase (more coverage means you
know your codebase better), and you can refactor your codebase with fewer problems.
It is simple to see the coverage information for your tests, but let’s look at how we can
see the distribution of this coverage under a package.
7.5.1
Coverage information
With the -cover parameter, you can see the percentage of each package in the output.
Completing the following steps shows a detailed report to drill down files, functions,
and so on:
1
Redirect the coverage output to a file.
2
Use a built-in coverage tool to convert it to an HTML file.
