132
CHAPTER 8
Deployment
Scheduler—Whenever you try to deploy a pod (the minimum deployable unit in
Kubernetes), it will be scheduled to an available node based on resource
requirements.
Controller manager—This component manages the controller processes available
in Kubernetes, such as ReplicationController. Whenever there is a change for a
resource definition, ReplicationController detects it and applies it to a specific
resource to create the desired state. This can be a replica count change, Docker
image change, and so on.

etcd—This is used to store resource states in the Kubernetes environment.
Whenever you create a pod, the metadata is stored in etcd first, and then the
scheduler handles the remaining part to schedule it to the available node.

kubelet—This worker node component is in contact with the API server, and its pri-
mary responsibility is to track the state of pod specification. It continuously checks
the pod, ensures underlying containers are healthy, and reports to the control plane.

kube-proxy—This component exposes services to the outside once they are
needed, allowing each service to communicate through a special internal dis-
covery system.
NOTE
You will see many examples related to Kubernetes resource operations
for deploying microservices. You can try all of them locally using Minikube, a
local Kubernetes cluster that helps you learn and try out Kubernetes (https://
minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/). You can also use kubectl, a command-line
tool that allows you to run commands against a Kubernetes cluster (https://
kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl).
Now that we understand the components of a Kubernetes cluster, let’s look at what
kind of resources are available and how they work.
8.2.2
Kubernetes resources
You can’t deploy containers to the Kubernetes cluster directly because there is an
abstraction on top—a pod, a minimum deployable unit that helps you define the con-
tainerized application and its environmental configurations and claim disks, once
they are needed. We talk about specifications like pod specification: YAML definitions
that contain information about cloud-native applications. It has three mandatory
fields: apiVersion, kind, and spec. apiVersion maintains versioning inside the API
server. kind is for defining the resource type, such as Pod, Deployment, Cronjob, Service,
etc. spec is the most important specification because it contains the metadata of the
application you want to run on the Kubernetes environment. In this section, you can
define the characteristics of a workload as follows:
You can specify the Docker image with its version.
You can either statically pass environment variables with their values or pass
them from a Kubernetes Secret or ConfigMap. Secrets store confidential values
in base64 encoded format, and ConfigMap maintains configurations in a key-
value format.
