117
7.4
End-to-end tests
CLI understand the YAML file’s data structure. The services section defines service
dependencies, requirements, and corresponding properties, as follows:

build—This field states the path of the Dockerfile to use during the stack build.

environment—With this field, we can define our environment variables, such as
application port. This field accepts a list with key-value pairs.

depends_on—Sometimes, you may need a prerequisite service for your service.
To accomplish that, you can use the depends_on field. A service that has
depends_on will not be built until the services defined under this field are ready.

ports—This field contains a port list for a specific service to be accessed from
outside.

healthcheck—By default, a service is marked ready once the container is started
in a stack. However, the application inside this service may not accept the con-
nection. For this reason, you may need to define a health check condition using
this field.

volumes—This field mounts a local resource to the container so that your local
resource will be available inside the container. We will use this to mount an SQL
file to the mysql container so that it will process it at startup.
We will use these fields in this book, but if you are interested in other fields, you can
refer to https://docs.docker.com/compose/. Now that we have insight into Docker
Compose service fields, let’s look at how to structure our end-to-end test.
7.4.3
End-to-end test folder structure
To add a separate module to run our end-to-end tests, go to the root folder of our
project and create a folder with the name e2e. You can navigate to that folder and ini-
tialize a module via the following command:
go mod init github.com/huseyinbabal/microservices/e2e
Do not forget to replace the username and repository in the go.mod file based on
your needs. To store our docker-compose.yml and DB migration files, create a
resources folder under the e2e folder. Once you add the docker-compose.yml file to
the resources folder, we can proceed with the initial service definitions that contain
the database layer. Notice that we just created a separate module dedicated to end-to-
end tests that contains a Docker Compose file to define the required service layers for
our tests. Let’s start with the database layer used by our microservices.
7.4.4
Database layer
In this layer, we provide a Docker image, mysql:8.0.30, and a password for the root
user. We also have an SQL file mounted to this service. As a health check mechanism,
we simply ping the MySQL server, which will be retried 20 times maximum, with a
5-second difference on each retry. If the command result provided in the test field
