130
CHAPTER 8
Deployment
You can also install the on-premises version of Docker registries in your network for
better performance during pull and push operations. If you are using Docker Hub as
your Docker image registry, you can use the following command to push your images
after you tag them:
docker tag order huseyinbabal/order:1.0.0
docker push huseyinbabal/order:1.0.0
Now that we understand how to build Docker images for our Go microservices let’s
get familiar with our deployment environment, Kubernetes. Docker registry providers
require a valid authentication token you can get via a docker login command. Of
course, in the Kubernetes environment, we can provide a pull secret since running
the Docker command while deploying microservices is not feasible. 
8.2
Kubernetes
Kubernetes (i.e., k8s) is an open source container orchestration platform that helps
manage containerized workloads or services. Kubernetes has a good abstraction layer,
a virtualized logical operating environment that utilizes physical hardware infrastruc-
ture components such as disks, networks, and machines. For example, once Kuberne-
tes is deployed on a set of machines, an internal service discovery mechanism is
provided so that you don’t have to worry about IP addresses in a networking context.
Microservices can interact with their service names. 
 Now that we understand what a Kubernetes cluster is, let’s look at its core compo-
nents. Since Kubernetes is a popular open source platform, you can see it in almost all
cloud providers; you can go to their consoles and spin it up with one click. In the same
way, you can include Kubernetes cluster installation in your infrastructure as a code
pipeline to provision clusters with Terraform or other cloud provider–specific SDKs
such as eksctl (http://mng.bz/Gye8). In the cloud environment, you can use AKS,
Azure-managed Kubernetes; EKS, AWS-managed Kubernetes; or GKE, Google Cloud–
managed Kubernetes. If your services are on bare metal servers, Kubespray is also an
option (https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubespray).
8.2.1
Kubernetes architecture
A Kubernetes cluster is a distributed system made from a machine set that contains
primarily containerized workloads. Those nodes are divided into control plane nodes
and worker nodes. The control plane is the brain of the Kubernetes cluster, and it has
mission-critical components to manage resources in the Kubernetes environment.
Those resources are specific to Kubernetes, but they manage a containerized applica-
tion under the hood. Worker nodes contain system components like kubelet and work-
loads like pods, the minimum deployable unit in Kubernetes (see figure 8.2).
 
 
 
