18
CHAPTER 2
Go quick-start
your code and make the code more readable. The variable it declares is no different
than any other variable you may declare when using the keyword var. 
 Now that we have our list of data feeds, we can move on to the next line of code.
19
// Create a unbuffered channel to receive match results.
20
results := make(chan *Result)
On line 20, we use the built-in function make to create an unbuffered channel. We use
the short variable declaration operator to declare and initialize the channel variable
with the call to make. A good rule of thumb when declaring variables is to use the key-
word var when declaring variables that will be initialized to their zero value, and to
use the short variable declaration operator when you’re providing extra initialization
or making a function call. 
 Channels are also a reference type in Go like maps and slices, but channels imple-
ment a queue of typed values that are used to communicate data between goroutines.
Channels provide inherent synchronization mechanisms to make communication
safe. In chapter 6 we’ll go into more details about channels and goroutines. 
 The next two lines of code are used later to prevent the program from terminating
before all the search processing is complete.
22
// Setup a wait group so we can process all the feeds.
23
var waitGroup sync.WaitGroup
24
25
// Set the number of goroutines we need to wait for while
26
// they process the individual feeds.
27
waitGroup.Add(len(feeds))
In Go, once the main function returns, the program terminates. Any goroutines that
were launched and are still running at this time will also be terminated by the Go run-
time. When you write concurrent programs, it’s best to cleanly terminate any gorou-
tines that were launched prior to letting the main function return. Writing programs
that can cleanly start and shut down helps reduce bugs and prevents resources from
corruption. 
 Our program is using a WaitGroup from the sync package to track all the gorou-
tines we’re going to launch. A WaitGroup is a great way to track when a goroutine is
finished performing its work. A WaitGroup is a counting semaphore, and we’ll use it to
count off goroutines as they finish their work. 
 On line 23 we declare a variable of type WaitGroup from the sync package. Then
on line 27 we set the value of the WaitGroup variable to match the number of gorou-
tines we’re going to launch. As you’ll soon see, we’ll process each feed concurrently
with its own goroutine. As each goroutine completes its work, it will decrement the
Listing 2.17
search/search.go: lines 19–20
Listing 2.18
search/search.go: lines 22–27
