15
Search package
Matcher type can be found in the match.go code file, and we’ll describe the purpose
of this type later. There’s another important aspect of this variable declaration: the
name of the variable matchers starts with a lowercase letter. 
 In Go, identifiers are either exported or unexported from a package. An exported
identifier can be directly accessed by code in other packages when the respective
package is imported. These identifiers start with a capital letter. Unexported identifi-
ers start with a lowercase letter and can’t be directly accessed by code in other pack-
ages. But just because an identifier is unexported, it doesn’t mean other packages
can’t indirectly access these identifiers. As an example, a function can return a value
of an unexported type and this value is accessible by any calling function, even if the
calling function has been declared in a different package. 
 This variable declaration also contains an initialization of the variable via the
assignment operator and a special built-in function called make. 
make(map[string]Matcher)
A map is a reference type that you’re required to make in Go. If you don’t make the
map first and assign it to your variable, you’ll receive errors when you try to use the map
variable. This is because the zero value for a map variable is nil. In chapter 4 we’ll go
into greater detail about maps. 
 In Go, all variables are initialized to their zero value. For numeric types, that value
is 0; for strings it’s an empty string; for Booleans it’s false; and for pointers, the zero
value is nil. When it comes to reference types, there are underlying data structures
that are initialized to their zero values. But variables declared as a reference type set to
their zero value will return the value of nil. 
 Now let’s walk through the Run function that’s called by the main function, which
you saw earlier.
11 // Run performs the search logic.
12 func Run(searchTerm string) {
13
// Retrieve the list of feeds to search through.
14
feeds, err := RetrieveFeeds()
15
if err != nil {
16
log.Fatal(err)
17
}
18
19
// Create a unbuffered channel to receive match results.
20
results := make(chan *Result)
21
22
// Setup a wait group so we can process all the feeds.
23
var waitGroup sync.WaitGroup
24
25
// Set the number of goroutines we need to wait for while
Listing 2.11
Making a map
Listing 2.12
search/search.go: lines 11–57
