25
Search package
 If we’re successful in opening the file, we then move to line 27. Here you see the
use of the keyword defer.
25
// Schedule the file to be closed once
26
// the function returns.
27
defer file.Close()
The keyword defer is used to schedule a function call to be executed right after a
function returns. It’s our responsibility to close the file once we’re done with it. By
using the keyword defer to schedule the call to the close method, we can guarantee
that the method will be called. This will happen even if the function panics and termi-
nates unexpectedly. The keyword defer lets us write this statement close to where the
opening of the file occurs, which helps with readability and reducing bugs. 
 Now we can review the final lines of code in the function. Let’s look at lines 31
through 35.
29
// Decode the file into a slice of pointers
30
// to Feed values.
31
var feeds []*Feed
32
err = json.NewDecoder(file).Decode(&feeds)
33
34
// We don't need to check for errors, the caller can do this.
35
return feeds, err
36 }
On line 31 we declare a nil slice named feeds that contains pointers to Feed type val-
ues. Then on line 32 we make a call to the Decode method off the value returned by
the NewDecoder function from the json package. The NewDecoder function takes the
file handle we created from the method call to Open and returns a pointer to a value
of type Decoder. From that value we call the Decode method, passing the address to
the slice. The Decode method then decodes the data file and populates our slice with a
set of Feed type values. 
 The Decode method can accept any type of value thanks to its declaration.
func (dec *Decoder) Decode(v interface{}) error
The parameter for the Decode method accepts a value of type interface{}. This is a
special type in Go and works with the reflection support that can be found in the
reflect package. In chapter 9 we’ll go into more detail about reflection and how this
method works. 
 The last line of code on line 35 returns the slice and error values back to the call-
ing function. In this case there’s no need for the function to check the error value
Listing 2.30
feed.go: lines 25–27
Listing 2.31
feed.go: lines 29–36
Listing 2.32
Using the empty interface
