22
CHAPTER 2
Go quick-start
47
waitGroup.Wait()
48
49
// Close the channel to signal to the Display
50
// function that we can exit the program.
51
close(results)
52
}()
53
54
// Start displaying results as they are available and
55
// return after the final result is displayed.
56
Display(results)
57 }
The code between lines 45 and 56 is tricky to explain until we dive deeper into some
of the other code in the search package. For now let’s describe what we see and come
back to it later to understand the mechanics. On lines 45 through 52 we launch yet
another anonymous function as a goroutine. This anonymous function takes no
parameters and uses closures to access both the WaitGroup and results variables.
This goroutine calls the method Wait on the WaitGroup value, which is causing the
goroutine to block until the count for the WaitGroup hits zero. Once that happens,
the goroutine calls the built-in function close on the channel, which as you’ll see
causes the program to terminate. 
 The final piece of code in the Run function is on line 56. This is a call to the
Display function, which can be found in the match.go code file. Once this function
returns, the program terminates. This doesn’t happen until all the results in the chan-
nel are processed. 
2.3.2
feed.go
Now that you’ve seen the Run function, let’s look at the code behind the function call
to RetrieveFeeds on line 14 of the search.go code file. This function reads the
data.json file and returns the slice of data feeds. These feeds drive the content that will
be searched by the different matchers. Here are the first eight lines of code that can
be found inside the feed.go code file.
01 package search
02
03 import (
04
"encoding/json"
05
"os"
06 )
07
08 const dataFile = "data/data.json"
This code file exists in the search folder, and on line 01 the code file is declared to be
in package search. You can see that on lines 03 through 06 we import two packages
from the standard library. The json package provides support for encoding and
decoding JSON and the os package provides support for accessing operating system
functionality like reading files. 
Listing 2.26
feed.go: lines 01–08
