38
CHAPTER 2
Go quick-start
84
if err != nil {
85
return nil, err
86
}
Since the value of document.Channel.Item is a slice of item type values, we use a for
range loop on line 81 to iterate through all the items. On line 83 we use the Match-
String function from the regexp package to match the search term against the con-
tent in the Title field of the channelItem value. Then we check for errors on line 84.
If there are no errors, we move to lines 89 through 94 to check the results of the match.
88
// If we found a match save the result.
89
if matched {
90
results = append(results, &search.Result{
91
Field:
"Title",
92
Content: channelItem.Title,
93
})
94
}
If the value of matched is true after the call to the MatchString method, we use the
built-in function append to add the search results to the results slice. The built-in
function append will grow the length and capacity of the slice as it needs to. You’ll
learn more about the built-in function append in chapter 4. The first parameter to
append is the value of the slice you want to append to, and the second parameter is the
value you want to append. In our case, we use a struct literal to declare and initialize a
value of type Result, and then we use the ampersand (&) operator to get the address
of this new value, which is stored in the slice. 
 After the title is checked for matches, lines 97 through 108 perform the same logic
again for the description field. Finally, on line 111, the method returns the results to
the calling function. 
2.5
Summary
Every code file belongs to a package, and that package name should be the
same as the folder the code file exists in.
Go provides several ways to declare and initialize variables. If the value of a
variable isn’t explicitly initialized, the compiler will initialize the variable to its
zero value.
Pointers are a way of sharing data across functions and goroutines.
Concurrency and synchronization are accomplished by launching goroutines
and using channels.
Go provides built-in functions to support using Go’s internal data structures.
The standard library contains many packages that will let you do some powerful
things.
Interfaces in Go allow you to write generic code and frameworks.
Listing 2.58
matchers/rss.go: lines 88–94
