21
Search package
 
39
Match(matcher, feed, searchTerm, results)
40
waitGroup.Done()
The first thing the goroutine does is call a function called Match, which can be found
in the match.go code file. The Match function takes a value of type Matcher, a pointer
to a value of type Feed, the search term, and the channel where the results are written
to. We’ll look at the internals of this function later, but for now it’s enough to know
that Match will search the feed and output matches to the results channel. 
 Once the function call to Match completes, we execute the code on line 40, which
is to decrement the WaitGroup count. Once every goroutine finishes calling the Match
function and the Done method, the program will know every feed has been processed.
There’s something else interesting about the method call to Done: the WaitGroup
value was never passed into the anonymous function as a parameter, yet the anony-
mous function has access to it. 
 Go supports closures and you’re seeing this in action. In fact, the searchTerm and
results variables are also being accessed by the anonymous function via closures.
Thanks to closures, the function can access those variables directly without the need to
pass them in as parameters. The anonymous function isn’t given a copy of these vari-
ables; it has direct access to the same variables declared in the scope of the outer func-
tion. This is the reason why we don’t use closures for the matcher and feed variables. 
29
// Launch a goroutine for each feed to find the results.
30
for _, feed := range feeds {
31
// Retrieve a matcher for the search.
32
matcher, exists := matchers[feed.Type]
The values of the feed and matcher variables are changing with each iteration of the
loop, as you can see on lines 30 and 32. If we used closures for these variables, as the
values of these variables changed in the outer function, those changes would be
reflected in the anonymous function. All the goroutines would be sharing the same
variables as the outer function thanks to closures. Unless we passed these values in as
function parameters, most of the goroutines would end up processing the same feed
using the same matcher—most likely the last one in the feeds slice. 
 With all the search goroutines working, sending results on the results channel
and decrementing the waitGroup counter, we need a way to display those results and
keep the main function alive until all the processing is done.
44
// Launch a goroutine to monitor when all the work is done.
45
go func() {
46
// Wait for everything to be processed.
Listing 2.23
search/search.go: lines 39–40
Listing 2.24
search/search.go: lines 29–32
Listing 2.25
search/search.go: lines 44–57
