298
CHAPTER 11
Testing
and differentiate short- from long-running tests to decide which kinds of tests to
execute.
Enabling the -race flag is highly recommended when writing concurrent appli-
cations. Doing so allows you to catch potential data races that can lead to soft-
ware bugs.
Using the -parallel flag is an efficient way to speed up tests, especially long-
running ones.
Use the -shuffle flag to help ensure that a test suite doesn’t rely on wrong
assumptions that could hide bugs.
Table-driven tests are an efficient way to group a set of similar tests to prevent
code duplication and make future updates easier to handle.
Avoid sleeps using synchronization to make a test less flaky and more robust. If
synchronization isn’t possible, consider a retry approach.
Understanding how to deal with functions using the time API is another way to
make a test less flaky. You can use standard techniques such as handling the
time as part of a hidden dependency or asking clients to provide it.
The httptest package is helpful for dealing with HTTP applications. It pro-
vides a set of utilities to test both clients and servers.
The iotest package helps write io.Reader and test that an application is toler-
ant to errors.
Regarding benchmarks:
– Use time methods to preserve the accuracy of a benchmark.
– Increasing benchtime or using tools such as benchstat can be helpful when
dealing with micro-benchmarks.
– Be careful with the results of a micro-benchmark if the system that ends up
running the application is different from the one running the micro-bench-
mark.
– Make sure the function under test leads to a side effect, to prevent compiler
optimizations from fooling you about the benchmark results.
– To prevent the observer effect, force a benchmark to re-create the data used
by a CPU-bound function.
Use code coverage with the -coverprofile flag to quickly see which part of the
code needs more attention.
Place unit tests in a different package to enforce writing tests that focus on an
exposed behavior, not internals.
Handling errors using the *testing.T variable instead of the classic if err
!= nil makes code shorter and easier to read.
You can use setup and teardown functions to configure a complex environ-
ment, such as in the case of integration tests.
