129
Concurrency versus parallelism
top of the operating system, binding operating system’s threads to logical processors
which, in turn, execute goroutines. The scheduler controls everything related to
which goroutines are running on which logical processors at any given time. 
 Concurrency synchronization comes from a paradigm called communicating sequen-
tial processes or CSP. CSP is a message-passing model that works by communicating data
between goroutines instead of locking data to synchronize access. The key data type
for synchronizing and passing messages between goroutines is called a channel. For
many developers who have never experienced writing concurrent programs using
channels, they invoke an air of awe and excitement, which you hopefully will experi-
ence as well. Using channels makes it easier to write concurrent programs and makes
them less prone to errors. 
6.1
Concurrency versus parallelism
Let’s start by learning at a high level what operating system processes and threads are.
This will help you understand later on how the Go runtime scheduler works with the
operating system to run goroutines concurrently. When you run an application, such
as an IDE or editor, the operating system starts a process for the application. You can
think of a process like a container that holds all the resources an application uses and
maintains as it runs. 
 Figure 6.1 shows a process that contains common resources that may be allocated
by any process. These resources include but are not limited to a memory address
space, handles to files, devices, and threads. A thread is a path of execution that’s
scheduled by the operating system to run the code that you write in your functions.
Each process contains at least one thread, and the initial thread for each process is
called the main thread. When the main thread terminates, the application terminates,
because this path of the execution is the origin for the application. The operating sys-
tem schedules threads to run against processors regardless of the process they belong
to. The algorithms that different operating systems use to schedule threads are always
changing and abstracted from the programmer. 
 The operating system schedules threads to run against physical processors and the
Go runtime schedules goroutines to run against logical processors. Each logical pro-
cessor is individually bound to a single operating system thread. As of version 1.5, the
default is to allocate a logical processor for every physical processor that’s available.
Prior to version 1.5, the default was to allocate only a single logical processor. These
logical processors are used to execute all the goroutines that are created. Even with a
single logical processor, hundreds of thousands of goroutines can be scheduled to run
concurrently with amazing efficiency and performance. 
 In figure 6.2, you can see the relationship between an operating system thread, a
logical processor, and the local run queue. As goroutines are created and ready to
run, they’re placed in the scheduler’s global run queue. Soon after, they’re assigned
to a logical processor and placed into a local run queue for that logical processor.
From there, a goroutine waits its turn to be given the logical processor for execution. 
