Supporting Unicode
63
U+0041 U+0042 U+0043
Notice how for the string “ABC”, the hexadecimal numbers are the same as for ASCII.
So Unicode assigns each character with a number, but it does not specify how this number should
be represented in binary. This is left to the encoding. The most popular encoding of the Unicode
standard is called UTF-8. UTF-8 is popular because it has some nice properties.
One nice property of UTF-8 is that every code point between 0-127 is stored in a single byte. Only
code points 128 and above are stored using 2, 3, or up to 6 bytes. Because the first 128 Unicode code
points were chosen to match ASCII, this has the side effect that English text looks exactly the same
in UTF-8 as it did in ASCII. (Notice how the hexadecimally-encoded ASCII of “ABC” from earlier
is the same as the Unicode code points for the same letters.)
In this chapter we will keep things simple by focusing on only these two encodings: ASCII and
UTF-8. UTF-8 has become the universal standard, and supports every language your application
might need, from Chinese to Klingon. But the same principles apply for any encoding, and should
your application need to handle the conversion from other encodings, most common encodings are
available in the golang.org/x/text/encoding package.
For a more complete history of string encoding, we recommend Joel Spolsky’s excellent blog post
from 2003, titled The Absolute Minimum Every Software Developer Absolutely, Positively Must
Know About Unicode and Character Sets (No Excuses!)²⁴.
With an understanding of what string encodings are and why they exist, let’s now turn to how they
are handled in Go.
Strings are byte slices
In Go, strings are read-only (or immutable) byte slices. The byte slice representing the string is not
required to hold Unicode text, UTF-8 text, or any other specific encoding. In other words, strings
can hold arbitrary bytes. For example, we can take a slice of bytes, and convert it to a string:
1
package main
2
3
import (
4
"fmt"
5
)
6
7
func main() {
8
b := []byte{65, 66, 67}
9
s := string(b)
²⁴https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2003/10/08/the-absolute-minimum-every-software-developer-absolutely-positively-must-know-
about-unicode-and-character-sets-no-excuses/
