266
CHAPTER 11
Testing
Using testing.Short, we can retrieve whether short mode was enabled while running
the test. Then we use Skip to skip the test. To run tests using short mode, we have to
pass -short:
% go test -short -v .
=== RUN
TestLongRunning
foo_test.go:9: skipping long-running test
--- SKIP: TestLongRunning (0.00s)
PASS
ok
foo
0.174s
TestLongRunning is explicitly skipped when the tests are executed. Note that unlike
build tags, this option works per test, not per file.
 In summary, categorizing tests is a best practice for a successful testing strategy. In
this section, we’ve seen three ways to categorize tests:
Using build tags at the test file level
Using environment variables to mark a specific test
Based on the test pace using short mode
We can also combine approaches: for example, using build tags or environment vari-
ables to classify a test (for example, as a unit or integration test) and short mode if our
project contains long-running unit tests.
 In the next section, we discuss why enabling the -race flag matters. 
11.2
#83: Not enabling the -race flag
In mistake #58, “Not understanding race problems,” we defined a data race as occur-
ring when two goroutines simultaneously access the same variable, with at least one
writing to the variable. We should also know that Go has a standard race-detector tool
to help detect data races. One common mistake is forgetting how important this tool
is and not enabling it. This section looks at what the race detector catches, how to use
it, and its limitations.
 In Go, the race detector isn’t a static analysis tool used during compilation;
instead, it’s a tool to find data races that occur at runtime. To enable it, we have to
enable the -race flag while compiling or running a test. For example:
$ go test -race ./...
Once the race detector is enabled, the compiler instruments the code to detect data
races. Instrumentation refers to a compiler adding extra instructions: here, tracking all
memory accesses and recording when and how they occur. At runtime, the race detec-
tor watches for data races. However, we should keep in mind the runtime overhead of
enabling the race detector:
Memory usage may increase by 5 to 10×.
Execution time may increase by 2 to 20×.
