254
CHAPTER 11
Reflection and code generation
11.1
Three features of reflection
Software developers use reflection to examine objects during runtime. In a strongly
typed language like Go, you may want to find out whether a particular object satisfies
an interface. Or discover what its underlying kind is. Or walk over its fields and modify
the data.
 Go’s reflection tools are located inside the reflect package. To understand those
tools, we need to define a few terms. You need to understand three critical features
when working with Go’s reflection mechanism: values, types, and kinds.
 You might approach the first term, value, by thinking of a variable. A variable is a
name that points to a piece of data, as illustrated in figure 11.1. (The figure labels this
Variable name.) The piece of data that it points to is called a value. Depending on the
type, the value may be nil. It may be a pointer, which in turn points to a value some-
where else. Or it may be a nonempty piece of data. For example, with x := 5, the value
of x is 5. For var b bytes.Buffer, the value of b is an empty buffer. And with myFunc
:= strings.Split, the value of myFunc is a function. In the reflect package, the type
reflect.Value represents a value.
Go is a typed language. Each value in Go has a particular type associated with it. For
example, with var b bytes.Buffer, the type is bytes.Buffer. For any reflect.Value
in Go, you can discover its type. Type information is accessible through the reflect
.Type interface.
 Finally, Go defines numerous primitive kinds, such as struct, ptr (pointer), int,
float64, string, slice, func (function), and so on. The reflect package enumer-
ates all of the possible kinds with the type reflect.Kind. (Note that in figure 11.1, the
value of type string also has the kind string.)
 The typical tasks you perform when working with reflection use these three con-
cepts. Usually, reflection begins by taking a value and then inspecting it to learn about
its contents, its type, and its kind.
TECHNIQUE 66
Switching based on type and kind
One of the most frequent uses of Go’s reflection system is identifying either the type
or kind of a value. Go has various tools for learning about the type and kind of a par-
ticular value.
ﬁrstName : "Inigo"
var lastName string  "Montoya"
Variable name
Type
Value
Figure 11.1
Variables and values
