262
CHAPTER 11
Reflection and code generation
The trickier part of this test, though, is getting a reference to an interface. There’s no
way to directly reflect on an interface type. Interfaces don’t work that way; you can’t
just instantiate one or reference it directly.
 Instead, you need to find a way to create a placeholder that implements an inter-
face. The simplest way is to do something we usually recommend studiously avoiding:
intentionally create a nil pointer. In the preceding code, you create two nil pointers,
and you do so like this: stringer := (*fmt.Stringer)(nil). In essence, you do this
just to create a thing whose only useful information is its type. When you pass these
into the implements() function, it’ll be able to reflect on the nil pointers and deter-
mine the type. You need the Elem() call in order to get the type of the nil.
 The code in listing 11.5 illustrates how working with Go’s reflection system can
require thinking creatively about how to set up various reflection operations. Tasks
that might seem superficially simple may require some thoughtful manipulation of
the type system.
 Next, let’s look at how to use Go’s reflection system to take a struct and program-
matically access its fields.
TECHNIQUE 68
Accessing fields on a struct
Go structs are the most commonly used tool for describing structured data in Go.
Because Go can glean all of the important information about a struct’s contents dur-
ing compilation, structs are efficient. At runtime, you may want to find out informa-
tion about a struct, including what its fields are and whether particular values of a
struct have been set.
PROBLEM
You want to learn about a struct at runtime, discovering its fields.
SOLUTION
Reflect the struct and use a combination of reflect.Value and reflect.Type to find
out information about the struct.
DISCUSSION
In the last few techniques, you’ve seen how to start with a value and reflect on it to get
information about its value, its kind, and its type. Now you’re going to combine these
techniques to walk a struct and learn about it.
 The tool you’ll create is a simple information-printing program that can read a
value and print information about it to the console. The principles will come in
handy, though, in the next section, where you’ll use some similar techniques to work
with Go’s annotation system.
 First, let’s start with a few types to examine in the following listing.
package main
import (
     "fmt"
     "reflect"
Listing 11.6
Types to examine
