275
TECHNIQUE 70
Generating code with go generate
jaundiced eye toward metaprogramming, the fact of the matter is that we use code
generators frequently. As you saw in the previous chapter, Protobuf, gRPC, and Thrift
use generators. Many SQL libraries are generators. Some languages even use genera-
tors behind the scenes for macros, generics, and collections. The nice thing about Go
is that it provides powerful generator tools right out of the box.
 At the root of Go’s embracing of code generation is a simple tool called go generate.
Like other Go tools, go generate is aware of the Go environment, and can be run on
files and packages. Conceptually speaking, it’s shockingly simple.
 The tool walks through the files you’ve specified, and it looks at the first line of each
file. If it finds a particular pattern, it executes a program. The pattern looks like this:
//go:generate COMMAND [ARGUMENT...]
The generator looks for this comment right at the top of each Go file that you tell it to
search. If it doesn’t find a header, it skips the file. If it does find the header, it executes
the COMMAND. The COMMAND can be any command-line tool that the generator can find
and run. You can pass any number of arguments to the command. Let’s build a trivi-
ally simple example in the next listing.
//go:generate echo hello
package main
func main() {
     println("Goodbyte")
}
This is legit Go code. If you compiled and ran it, it would print Goodbyte to the con-
sole. But it has a generator on the first line. The generator’s command is echo, which
is a UNIX command that echoes a string back to Standard Output. And it has one
argument, the string hello. Let’s run the generator and see what it does:
$ go generate simple.go
hello
All the generator does is execute the command, which prints hello to the console.
Although this implementation is simple, the idea is that you can add commands that
generate code for you. You’ll see this in action in the next technique.
TECHNIQUE 70
Generating code with go generate
Writing custom type-safe collections, generating structs from database tables, trans-
forming JSON schemata into code, generating many similar objects—these are some
of the things we’ve seen developers use Go generators for. Sometimes Go developers
use the Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) package or yacc tool to generate Go code. But
we’ve found that one fun and easy way to build code is to write Go templates that gen-
erate Go code.
Listing 11.17
A trivial generator
