280
CHAPTER 11
Reflection and code generation
 
Taking a higher-level view, generators can be a useful way of writing repetitive code
that would otherwise use reflection. Go’s reflection mechanism is useful, but it’s
tedious to write and limited in capabilities, and the performance of your application
will suffer. That’s not to say that reflection is bad. Rather, it’s a tool designed to solve a
specific set of problems.
 On the other hand, generating code isn’t always the best solution either. Metapro-
gramming can make debugging hard. It also adds steps to the development process.
Just as with reflection, generation should be used when the situation calls for it. But
it’s not a panacea or a workaround for Go’s strong typing.
11.4
Summary
This chapter has taken on two of the more difficult Go topics: reflection and metapro-
gramming. With reflection, you examined how types, values, kinds, fields, and tags
can be used to solve a variety of programming problems. And with metaprogramming,
you saw how the go generate tool can be used to write code that creates code.
 During the course of this chapter, you saw how to do the following:
Use kinds to identify critical details about types
Determine at runtime whether a type implements an interface
Access struct fields at runtime
Work with annotations
Parse tags within struct annotations
Write marshal and unmarshal functions
Use go generate
Write Go templates that generate Go code
Over the course of this book, you’ve walked through a broad range of topics. We hope
that the techniques we’ve demonstrated are as practical and applicable in your coding
as they’ve been in ours. Go is a fantastic systems language. Part of the reason is the
simplicity of Go’s syntax and semantics. But more than that, Go developers built a pro-
gramming language not as an academic exercise, but in an effort to solve real prob-
lems in elegant ways. We hope this book has illustrated both Go’s elegance and its
practicality.
Inspired by go generate
We were inspired enough by the elegance of Go’s generator that when we created the
Helm package manager for Kubernetes (http://helm.sh), we implemented a similar
pattern for transforming templates into Kubernetes manifest files.
