5
Using Go for web applications 
 Just like any other web applications, Go can scale well horizontally as well as by lay-
ering a proxy above a number of instances of a Go web app. Go web applications are
compiled as static binaries, without any dynamic dependencies, and can be distributed
to systems that don’t have Go built in. This allows you to deploy Go web applications eas-
ily and consistently.
1.1.2
Modular web applications and Go
Large-scale web applications should be built with components that work interchange-
ably. This approach allows you to add, remove, or modify features easily and gives you
the flexibility to meet the changing needs of the application. It also allows you to
lower software development costs by reusing modular components.
 Although Go is statically typed, it has an interface mechanism that describes behav-
ior and allows dynamic typing. Functions can take interfaces, which means you can
introduce new code into the system and still be able to use existing functions by imple-
menting methods required by that interface. Also, with a function that takes an empty
interface, you can put any value as the parameter because all types implement the
empty interface. Go implements a number of features usually associated with func-
tional programming, including function types, functions as values, and closures.
These features allow you to build more modular code by providing the capability of
building functions out of other functions. 
 Go is also often used to create microservices. In microservice architecture large-scale
applications can be created by composing smaller independent services. These services
are interchangeable and organized around capabilities (for example, a systems-level
service like logging or an application-level service such as billing or risk analysis). By
creating multiple small Go services and composing them into a single web application,
you enable these capabilities to be swappable and therefore more modular. 
1.1.3
Maintainable web applications and Go
Like any large and complex applications, having an easily maintainable codebase is
important for large-scale web applications. It’s important because large-scale applica-
tions often need to grow and evolve and therefore you need to revisit and change the
code regularly. Complex, unwieldy code takes a long time to change and is fraught
with risk of something breaking, so it makes sense to keep the source code well orga-
nized and maintainable. 
 Go was designed to encourage good software engineering practices. It has a clean
and simple syntax that’s very readable. Go’s package system is flexible and unambigu-
ous, and there’s a good set of tools to enhance the development experience and help
programmers to write more readable code. An example is the Go source code format-
ter (gofmt) which standardizes the formatting of Go code.
 Go expects documentation to evolve along with the code. The Go documentation
tool (godoc) parses Go source code, including comments, and creates documentation
in a variety of formats such as HTML and plain text. It’s very easy to use—just write the
documentation above the source code itself and godoc will extract it along with the
code to generate the documentation.
