6
CHAPTER 1
Go and web applications
 Testing is built into Go. gotest discovers test cases built into the same package and
runs functional and performance testing. Go also provides web application testing
tools by emulating a web client and recording responses generated by the server.
1.1.4
High performing web applications and Go
High performance means being able to process a large volume of requests within a
short period of time. It also means being able to respond to the client quickly and
making operations faster for end users. 
 One of Go’s design goals is to approach the performance of C, and although it
hasn’t reached this goal, the current results are quite competitive. Go compiles to
native code, which generally means it’s faster than other interpreted languages and
frameworks. As described earlier, Go also has great concurrency support with gorou-
tines, which allows multiple requests to be processed at the same time.
 I hope I’ve convinced you that Go is at least worth looking into as a useful lan-
guage and platform for developing web applications. But before we jump into any Go
code, let’s get in sync on what web applications are and how they work. This will be
important as you read through the next few chapters. 
1.2
How web applications work 
Ask a room full of programmers what a web application is and you’ll likely get a wide
range of answers (plus looks of scorn and amazement for asking such a basic question).
But as you get your answers from the assembled technologists, you might realize that
the common understanding of what a web application is might not be as straightfor-
ward. For example, is a web service also a web application? Many would consider them
different, primarily because web services are consumed by other software whereas web
applications are used by humans. But if a web application produces data that’s read-
able by humans but is only consumed by other software (as with an RSS feed), is it a web
service or still a web application? 
 If an application returns only an HTML page without any processing, is it a web appli-
cation? Is a Adobe Flash program running on a web browser a web application? How
about an application only written in HTML5, running on your browser but that resides
on your laptop? If the application doesn’t use HTTP to send requests to a server, is it still
a web application? At a higher level, most programmers understand what a web appli-
cation is. Down at a lower, implementation level, though, things get fuzzy and gray.
 In a purist and narrow sense, a web application is a computer program that
responds to an HTTP request by a client and sends HTML back to the client in an HTTP
response. But isn’t this what a web server
is? From this definition, there is no dif-
ference between a web server and a web
application. The web server is the
web application (see figure 1.1).
 The only consideration is probably
that a web server like httpd or Apache
Client
Server
Request
Response
Figure 1.1
The basic request response 
structure of a web application
