7
How web applications work 
looks at a particular directory (in Apache this is the docroot) and returns files in that
directory when requested. In comparison, a web application doesn’t simply return
files; it processes the request and performs operations that are programmed into the
application (see figure 1.2).
From this point of view, you can probably consider a web server to be a specialized type
of web application that returns only files that are being requested. In a broader sense,
many users would consider any application that uses a browser as the client to be a web
app. This includes Adobe Flash applications, single-page web applications, and even
applications that aren’t served over HTTP but that reside on your desktop or laptop.
 In the context of this book, we need to draw the line somewhere. Let’s consider
first what an application is. 
 An application is a software program that interacts with a user and helps the user to
perform an activity. This includes accounting systems, human resource systems, desk-
top publication software, and so on. A web application is then an application that’s
deployed and used through the web. 
 In other words, a program needs to fulfill only two criteria to be considered a
web app:
■
The program must return HTML to a calling client that renders HTML and dis-
plays to a user.
■
The data must be transported to the client through HTTP.
As an extension of this definition, if a program doesn’t render HTML to a user but
instead returns data in any other format to another program, it is a web service (that is,
it provides a service to other programs). We’ll get into web services in chapter 7. 
 Although this is probably a narrower definition than what most programmers
would likely define as a web application, it’s a useful one for our discussion in this
book. It cuts through all the fuzziness and makes web applications much easier to
understand. As we progress, things will start to make a lot more sense. But first, let’s
understand how HTTP came to be the way it is today.
Client
Server
Request
Response
File
Web app processes request, performs
programmed operations, returns files.
Figure 1.2
How a web application works
