12
CHAPTER 1
Go and web applications
 A core set of HTTP request fields is standardized in RFC 7231 (which is a part of the
set of HTTP 1.1 RFCs). In the past, nonstandard HTTP request fields conventionally
started with X-, but this practice has been discontinued.
HTTP request headers are mostly optional. The only mandatory header in HTTP
1.1 is the Host header field. But if the message has a message body (which is optional,
depending on the method), you’ll need to have either the Content-Length or the
Transfer-Encoding header fields. Some common request headers you’ll see appear in
table 1.1.
1.6
HTTP response
An HTTP response message is sent every time there’s a request. Like the HTTP
request, the HTTP response consists of a few lines of plain text:
■
A status line
■
Zero or more response headers
■
An empty line
■
The message body (optional)
Table 1.1
Common HTTP request headers
Header field
Description
Accept
Content types that are acceptable by the client as part of the HTTP response. 
For example, Accept: text/html signals to the server that the client wants 
the response body’s content type to be in HTML.
Accept-Charset
The character sets required from the server. For example, Accept-Charset: 
utf-8 tells the server that the client wants the response body to be in UTF-8.
Authorization
This is used to send Basic Authentication credentials to the server. 
Cookie
The client should send back cookies that were set by the calling server. If the 
server had set three cookies at the browser previously, the Cookie header field 
will contain all three cookies in a semicolon-delimited name-value pair string. 
For example:
Cookie: my_first_cookie=hello; my_second_cookie=world
Content-Length
The length of the request body in octets.
Content-Type
The content type of the request body (when there’s a request body). When a 
POST or a PUT is sent, the content type is by default x-www-form-urlen-
coded. But when uploading a file (using the HTML input tag with the type attri-
bute set to file, or otherwise) the content type should be multipart/
form-data.
Host
The name of the server, along with the port number. If the port number is omit-
ted, it will be resolved as port 80.
Referrer
The address of the previous page that linked to the requested page.
User-Agent
Describes the calling client.
