14
CHAPTER 1
Go and web applications
headers tell the server more about the request and what the client wants, the response
headers are the means for the server to tell the client more about the response and
what the server wants (from the client). Some commonly used response headers are
shown in table 1.3.
1.7
URI
When Tim Berners-Lee introduced the World Wide Web to the world, he also intro-
duced the idea of a location string representing a resource on the internet. In June
1994, Berners-Lee published RFC 1630, which defined the URI. In it he described the
concepts of a string that represents the name of the resource (uniform resource name, or
URN) and a string that represents the location of the resource (uniform resource locator,
or URL). The URI is an umbrella term that includes both the URN and the URI, and
they have similar syntax and format. This book uses only URLs, so for all purposes,
both the URI and URL can be used interchangeably.
 This is the general form of a URI: <scheme name> : <hierarchical part> [ ? <query> ]
[ # <fragment> ]
 The scheme name is the name of the URI scheme that defines the rest of the URI
structure. A large number of URI schemes are in use, because URI is a popular way of
identifying resources. But the one we’ll be using mostly in this book is the HTTP
scheme. 
 The hierarchical part contains the identification information and should be hierar-
chical in structure. If the hierarchical part starts with a double slash (//), then it’ll
Table 1.3
Common response headers
Header field
Description
Allow
Tells the client which request methods are supported by the server.
Content-Length
The length of the response body in octets (8-bit bytes).
Content-Type
The content type of the response body (when there is a response body).
Date
Tells the current time (formatted in GMT).
Location
This header is used with redirection, to tell the client where to request the next 
URL.
Server
Domain name of the server that’s returning the response.
Set-Cookie
Sets a cookie at the client. Multiple Set-Cookie headers can be added to the 
same response.
WWW-Authenticate
Tells header the client what type of authorization clients should supply in their 
Authorization request header. The server usually sends this along with a 401 
Unauthorized status line. This header also provides the challenge information 
to the authentication schemes that are accepted by the server (for example, the 
basic and digest access authentication schemes described in RFC 2617). 
