18
CHAPTER 1
Go and web applications
■
Active templates often contain HTML too, but in addition to placeholder tokens,
they contain other programming language constructs like conditionals, itera-
tors, and variables. Examples of active template engines are Java ServerPages
(JSP), Active Server Pages (ASP), and Embedded Ruby (ERB). PHP started off as
a kind of active template engine and has evolved into its own programming
language.
We’ve covered a lot of the fundamentals and the theories behind web applications so
far in this chapter. If it appears an excessive overload of technical minutiae to you,
please hang in there! As we get to the chapters ahead, you’ll start to realize why it’s
necessary to understand the fundamentals covered in this chapter. In the meantime,
let’s switch gears, hold our breath, and jump into the cold waters of Go program-
ming—it’s time to get some hands-on experience. In the next few sections, I’ll start
you on the road of developing web applications with Go.
1.10
Hello Go
Let’s write our first Go web app. If you haven’t installed Go, read appendix A and fol-
low the installation instructions. Don’t worry if you don’t know the net/http package
that is being used—you will learn it in the next few chapters. For now, just type out the
code (listing 1.1), compile it, and then see how it works. If you’re accustomed to a
case-insensitive programming language, remember, Go code is case sensitive.
 All source code in this book is in GitHub at https://github.com/sausheong/gwp. 
package main
import (
    "fmt"
    "net/http"
)
func handler(writer http.ResponseWriter, request *http.Request) {
    fmt.Fprintf(writer, "Hello World, %s!", request.URL.Path[1:])
}
func main() {
    http.HandleFunc("/", handler)
    http.ListenAndServe(":8080", nil)
}
Create a subdirectory in your workspace src directory and name it first_webapp. Now
go to that subdirectory and create a file named server.go. This will be your source file.
Then from a console (or command-line interface or command prompt), execute this
command:
$ go install first_webapp
Listing 1.1
A Hello World Go web app
