37
Installing PostgreSQL
types. An empty interface is then an empty set, meaning any type can be an empty
interface; you can pass any type into this function as the data.
 The last parameter in the function starts with … (three dots). This indicates that
the generateHTML function is a variadic function, meaning it can take zero or more
parameters in that last variadic parameter. This allows you to pass any number of tem-
plate files to the function. Variadic parameters need to be the last parameter for the
variadic function.
  Now that we have the generateHTML function, let’s go back and clean up the
index handler function. The new index handler function, shown here, now looks a
lot neater. 
func index(writer http.ResponseWriter, request *http.Request) {
  threads, err := data.Threads(); if err == nil {
    _, err := session(writer, request)
    if err != nil {
      generateHTML(writer, threads, "layout", "public.navbar", "index")
    } else {
      generateHTML(writer, threads, "layout", "private.navbar", "index")
    }
  }
}
We sort of glossed over the data source and what we used to combine with the tem-
plates to get the final HTML. Let’s get to that now.
2.6
Installing PostgreSQL
In this chapter as well as for any remaining chapters in the book that require access to
a relational database, we’ll be using PostgreSQL. Before we start any code, I’ll run
through how to install and start up PostgreSQL, and also create the database that we
need for this chapter.
2.6.1
Linux/FreeBSD
Prebuilt binaries are available for many variants of Linux and FreeBSD from
www.postgresql.org/download. Download any one of them from the site and follow
the instructions. For example, you can install Postgres on Ubuntu by executing this
command on the console:
sudo apt-get install postgresql postgresql-contrib
This will install both the postgres package and an additional package of utilities, and
also start it up. 
 By default Postgres creates a postgres user and that’s the only user who can con-
nect to the server. For convenience you can create another Postgres account with your
username. First, you need to log in to the Postgres account:
sudo su postgres
Listing 2.11
The final index handler function
