48
CHAPTER 3
Handling requests
3.1
The Go net/http library 
Although using a mature and sophisticated web application framework to write web
applications is usually easy and fast, the same frameworks often impose their own
conventions and patterns. Many assume that these conventions and patterns are best
practices, but best practices have a way of growing into cargo cult programming when
they aren’t understood properly. Programmers following these conventions without
understanding why they’re used often follow them blindly and reuse them when it’s
unnecessary or even harmful.
The reason data is persisted as cookies in the client and sessions in the server is
because HTTP is a connection-less protocol, and each call to the server has no stored
knowledge of the previous call. Without this understanding, using cookies and ses-
sions seems a convoluted way of persisting information between connections. Using a
framework to get around this complexity is smart because a framework normally hides
the complexity and presents a uniform interface for persistence between connections.
As a result, a new programmer would simply assume all it takes to persist data between
connections is to use this interface. This uniform interface is based on the conven-
tions of a specific framework, though, and such practices might or might not be con-
sistent across all frameworks. What’s worse, the same interface name might be used in
different frameworks, with different implementations and different names, adding to
the confusion. This means that the web application that’s developed is now tied to the
Cargo cult programming
During World War II, the Allied forces set up air bases on islands in the Pacific to help
with the war efforts. Large amounts of supplies and military equipment were air-
dropped to troops and islanders supporting the troops, drastically changing their lives.
For the first time, the islanders saw manufactured clothes, canned food, and other
goods. When the war ended, the bases were abandoned and the cargo stopped arriv-
ing. So the islanders did a very natural thing—they dressed themselves up as air traffic
controllers, soldiers, and sailors, waved landing signals using sticks on the airfields,
and performed parade ground drills in an attempt to get cargo to continue falling by
parachute from planes. 
These cargo cultists gave their names to the practice of cargo cult programming. While
not exactly waving landing signals, cargo cult programmers copy and paste code they
either inherit or find on the internet (often, StackOverflow) without understanding why
it works, only that it works. As a result, they’re often unable to extend or make changes
to code. Similarly, cargo cult programmers often use web frameworks without under-
standing why the framework uses certain patterns or conventions, as well as the trade-
offs that are being made.
