68
CHAPTER 3
Handling requests
many default cURL implementations don’t yet support HTTP/2 (including the one
shipped with OS X), so if you need to recompile cURL, link it with nghttp2 and replace
the previous cURL version with the one you just built.
 Once you have done that, you can use cURL to check your HTTP/2 web applica-
tion:
curl -I --http2 --insecure https://localhost:8080/
Remember, you need to run it against HTTPS. Because you created your own certifi-
cate and private key, by default cURL will not proceed as it will try to verify the certifi-
cate. To force cURL to accept your certificate, you need to set the insecure flag.
 You should get an output similar to this:
HTTP/2.0 200
content-type:text/plain; charset=utf-8
content-length:12
date:Mon, 15 Feb 2016 05:33:01 GMT
We’ve discussed how to handle requests, but we mostly glossed over how to process the
incoming request and send responses to the client. Handlers and handler functions
are the key to writing web applications in Go, but processing requests and sending
responses is the real reason why web applications exist. In the next chapter, we’ll turn
to the details on requests and responses and you’ll see how to extract information
from requests and pass on information through responses.
3.5
Summary
■
Go has full-fledged standard libraries for building web applications, with net/
http and html/template.
■
Although using good web frameworks is often easier and saves time, it is impor-
tant to learn the basics of web programming before using them.
■
Go’s net/http package allows HTTP to be layered on top of SSL to be more
secured, creating HTTPS.
■
Go handlers can be any struct that has a method named ServeHTTP with two
parameters: an HTTPResponseWriter interface and a pointer to a Request struct.
■
Handler functions are functions that behave like handlers. Handler functions
have the same signature as the ServeHTTP method and are used to process
requests.
■
Handlers and handler functions can be chained to allow modular processing of
requests through separation of concerns.
■
Multiplexers are also handlers. ServeMux is an HTTP request multiplexer. It
accepts an HTTP request and redirects it to the correct handler according to
the URL in the request. DefaultServeMux is a publicly available instance of
ServeMux that is used as the default multiplexer.
■
In Go 1.6 and later, net/http supports HTTP/2 by default. Before 1.6, HTTP/2
support can be added manually by using the http2 package.
