97
Templates and template engines
5.1
Templates and template engines
Template engines often combine data with templates to produce the final HTML (see
figure 5.1). Handlers usually call template engines to combine data with the templates
and return the resultant HTML to the client.
Web template engines evolved from server-side includes (SSIs), which eventually
branched out into web programming languages like PHP, ColdFusion, and JSP. As a
result, no standards exist for template engines and the features of existing template
engines vary widely, depending on why they were created. But there are roughly two
ideal types of template engines, at opposite ends of the spectrum:
■
Logic-less template engines —Dynamic data is substituted into the templates at
specified placeholders. The template engine doesn’t do any logic processing; it
only does string substitutions. The idea behind having logic-less template
engines is to have a clean separation between presentation and logic, where the
processing is done by the handlers only.
■
Embedded logic template engines —Programming language code is embedded into
the template and executed during runtime by the template engine, including
substitutions. This makes these types of template engines very powerful.
Because the logic is embedded in the template itself, though, we often get the
logic distributed between the handlers, making the code harder to maintain.
Logic-less template engines are usually faster to render because less processing is
involved. Some template engines claim to be logic-less (such as Mustache), but the
ideal of substitution-only is impossible to achieve. Mustache claims to be logic-less but
has tags that behave like conditionals and loops. 
 Embedded logic template engines that are completely at the other end of the spec-
trum are indistinguishable from a computer program itself. We can see this with PHP.
Template engine
Templates
Data
HMTL
Figure 5.1
Template engines combine data and templates to produce the final displayed HTML.
