132
CHAPTER 6
Storing data
 If the program ends here and exits, all is well and the data is written to file.
Because you’ll need to read the same posts.csv file next, we need to make sure that any
buffered data is properly written to the file by calling the Flush method on the writer.
 Reading the CSV file works much the same way. First, you need to open the file.
Then call the NewReader function, passing in the file, to create a reader. Set the
FieldsPerRecord field in the reader to be a negative number, which indicates that
you aren’t that bothered if you don’t have all the fields in the record. If FieldsPer-
Record is a positive number, then that’s the number of fields you expect from each
record and Go will throw an error if you get less from the CSV file. If FieldsPerRecord
is 0, you’ll use the number of fields in the first record as the FieldsPerRecord value.
 You call the ReadAll method on the reader to read all the records in at once, but if
the file is large you can also retrieve one record at a time from the reader. This results
in a slice of slices, which you can then iterate through and create the Post structs. If
you run the program now, it’ll create a CSV file called posts.csv, which contains lines of
comma-delimited text:
1,Hello World!,Sau Sheong
2,Bonjour Monde!,Pierre
3,Hola Mundo!,Pedro
4,Greetings Earthlings!,Sau Sheong
It’ll also read from the same file and print out the data from the first line of the CSV file:
1
Hello World!
Sau Sheong
6.2.2
The gob package
The encoding/gob package manages streams of gobs, which are binary data,
exchanged between an encoder and a decoder. It’s designed for serialization and
transporting data but it can also be used for persisting data. Encoders and decoders
wrap around writers and readers, which conveniently allows you to use them to write
to and read from files. The following listing demonstrates how you can use the gob
package to create binary data files and read from them.
package main
import (
    "bytes"
    "encoding/gob"
    "fmt"
    "io/ioutil"
)
type Post struct {
    Id     int
    Content string
Listing 6.4
Reading and writing binary data using the gob package
