141
Go and SQL
You want to return a Post struct, so you start by creating an empty one:
post = Post{}
As you saw earlier, you can chain the QueryRow method and the Scan method to copy
the value of the returned results on the empty Post struct. Notice that you’re using
the QueryRow method on the sql.DB struct instead of sql.Stmt because obviously you
don’t have or need a prepared statement. It should also be obvious that you could
have done it either way in the Create and GetPost functions. The only reason I’m
showing you a different way is to illustrate the possibilities.
 Now that you have the empty Post struct populated with the data from the data-
base, it’ll be returned to the calling function.
6.3.5
Updating a post
After you retrieve a post, you may want to update the information in the record.
Assuming you’ve already retrieved readPost, let’s modify it and then have the new
data updated in the database as well:
readPost.Content = "Bonjour Monde!"
readPost.Author = "Pierre"
readPost.Update()
You’ll create an Update method on the Post struct for this purpose, as shown in this
listing.
func (post *Post) Update() (err error) {
    _, err = Db.Exec("update posts set content = $2, author = $3 where id = 
    ➥ $1", post.Id, post.Content, post.Author)
    return
}
Unlike when creating a post, you won’t use a prepared statement. Instead, you’ll jump
right in with a call to the Exec method of the sql.DB struct. You no longer have to
update the receiver, so you don’t need to scan the returned results. Therefore, using
the Exec method on the global database variable Db, which returns sql.Result and
an error, is much faster:
_, err = Db.Exec(post.Id, post.Content, post.Author)
We aren’t interested in the result (which just gives the number of rows affected and
the last inserted id, if applicable) because there’s nothing we want to process from it,
so you can ignore it by assigning it to the underscore (_). And your post will be
updated (unless there’s an error).
6.3.6
Deleting a post
So far we’ve been able to create, retrieve, and update posts. Deleting them when
they’re not needed is a natural extension. Assuming that you already have the
Listing 6.10
Updating a post
