152
CHAPTER 6
Storing data
Nothing surprising here. But as you can see you’re using another construct, in this
case the database handler gorm.DB, to create the Post struct, following the Data-
Mapper pattern. This is unlike our previous example, when you called a Create
method on the Post struct, following the ActiveRecord pattern.
 If you inspect the database, you’ll see that a timestamp column, created_at, will be
populated with the date and time it was created.
 Next, you want to add a comment to the post:
comment := Comment{Content: "Good post!", Author: "Joe"}
Db.Model(&post).Association("Comments").Append(comment)
You create a comment first, and then use a combination of the Model method,
together with the Association and Append methods, to add the comment to the post.
Notice that at no time are you manually accessing the PostId.
 Finally, let’s look at how you can retrieve the post and the comment you created:
var readPost Post  
Db.Where("author = $1", "Sau Sheong").First(&readPost)
var comments []Comment
Db.Model(&readPost).Related(&comments)
Again, you use the Where method on gorm.DB to look for the first record that has the
author name "Sau Sheong" and push it into the readPost variable. This will give you
the post. To get the comments, you get the post model using the Model method, and
then get the related comments into your comments variable using the Related
method.
 As mentioned earlier, what we’ve covered briefly in this section on Gorm is only a
small portion of the rich features provided by this ORM library. If you’re interested,
learn more at https://github.com/jinzhu/gorm.
 Gorm is not the only ORM library in Go. A number of equally feature-rich libraries
are available, including Beego’s ORM library and GORP (which isn’t exactly an ORM
but close enough).
 In this chapter we’ve covered the basic building blocks of writing a web applica-
tion. In the next chapter, we switch gears and discuss how we can build web services. 
6.6
Summary
■
Caching data in memory using structs, which allows you to cache data for
quicker response 
■
Storing and retrieving data in files, in both CSV as well as gob binary format, which
allows you to process user-uploaded data or provide backup for cached data
■
Performing CRUD on relational databases using database/sql and establishing
relationships between data
■
Using third-party data-accessing libraries, including Sqlx and Gorm, which give
you more powerful tools to manipulate data in the database 
