157
Introducing SOAP-based web services
UDDI (Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration—a directory service), SOAP-
based services can also be discovered.
SOAP is known to be cumbersome and unnecessarily complex. The SOAP XML
messages can grow to be verbose and difficult to troubleshoot, and you may often
need other tools to manage them. SOAP-based web services also can be heavy to pro-
cess because of the additional overhead. WSDL, while providing a solid contract
between the client and server, can become burdensome because every change in the
web service requires the WSDL and therefore the SOAP clients to be changed. This
often results in version lock-in as the developers of the web service are wary of making
even the smallest changes. 
REST-based web services are a lot more flexible. REST isn’t an architecture in itself
but a design philosophy. It doesn’t require XML, and very often REST-based web ser-
vices use simpler data formats like JSON, resulting in speedier web services. REST-
based web services are often much simpler than SOAP-based ones. 
 Another difference between the two is that SOAP-based web services are function-
driven; REST-based web services are data-driven. SOAP-based web services tend to be
RPC (Remote Procedure Call) styled; REST-based web services, as described earlier,
focus on resources, and HTTP methods are the verbs working on those resources. 
 ProgrammableWeb is a popular site that tracks APIs that are available publicly over
the internet. As of this writing, its database contains 12,987 publicly available APIs, of
which 2061 (or 16%) are SOAP-based and 6967 (54%) are REST-based.1 Unfortunately,
enterprises rarely publish the number of internal web services, so that figure is diffi-
cult to confirm.
 Many developers and companies end up using both SOAP- and REST-based web ser-
vices at the same time but for different purposes. In these cases, SOAP is used in internal
applications for enterprise integration and REST is used for external, third-party devel-
opers. The advantage of this strategy is that both the strengths of REST (speed and sim-
plicity) and SOAP (security and robustness) can be used where they’re most effective.
7.2
Introducing SOAP-based web services
SOAP is a protocol for exchanging structured data that’s defined in XML. SOAP was
originally an acronym for Simple Object Access Protocol, terminology that is a misno-
mer today, as it’s no longer considered simple and it doesn’t deal with objects either.
In the latest version, the SOAP 1.2 specification, the protocol officially became simply
SOAP. SOAP is usable across different networking protocols and is independent of pro-
gramming models.
SOAP is highly structured and heavily defined, and the XML used for the transpor-
tation of the data can be complex. Every operation and input or output of the service
is clearly defined in the WSDL. The WSDL is the contract between the client and the
server, defining what the service provides and how it’s provided.
1 Refer to www.programmableweb.com/category/all/apis?data_format=21176 for SOAP-based APIs and
www.programmableweb.com/category/all/apis?data_format=21190 for REST-based APIs.
