161
Introducing REST-based web services
the same thing, except that you create models (called objects) to represent things and
you define functions (called methods) and attach them to those models, which you can
subsequently call. REST is an evolution of the same line of thought where instead of
exposing functions as services to be called, you expose the models, called resources, and
only allow a few actions (called verbs) on them.
  When used over HTTP, a URL is used to represent a resource. HTTP methods are
used as verbs to manipulate them, as listed in table 7.1.  
The aha! moment that often comes to programmers who first read about REST is
when they see the mapping between the use of HTTP methods for REST with the data-
base CRUD operations. It’s important to understand that this mapping is not a 1-to-1
mapping, nor is it the only mapping. For example, you can use both POST and PUT to
create a new resource and either will be correctly RESTful.
 The main difference between POST and PUT is that for PUT, you need to know
exactly which resource it will replace, whereas a POST will create a new resource alto-
gether, with a new URL. In other words, to create a new resource without knowing the
URL, you’ll use POST but if you want to replace an existing resource, you’ll use PUT.
 As mentioned in chapter 1, PUT is idempotent and the state of the server doesn’t
change regardless of the number of times you repeat your call. If you’re using PUT to
create a resource or to modify an existing resource, only one resource is being created
at the provided URL. But POST isn’t idempotent; every time you call it, POST will cre-
ate a resource, with a new URL.
 The second aha! moment for programmers new to REST comes when they realize
that these four HTTP methods aren’t the only ones that can be used. A lesser-known
method called PATCH is often used to partially update a resource.
 This is an example of a REST request:
GET /comment/123 HTTP/1.1
Note that there’s no body associated in the GET, unlike in the corresponding SOAP
request shown here: 
POST /GetComment HTTP/1.1
Host: www.chitchat.com
Content-Type: application/soap+xml; charset=utf-8
Table 7.1
HTTP methods and corresponding web services
HTTP method
What to use it for
Example
POST
Creates a resource (where one doesn’t exist)
POST /users
GET
Retrieves a resource
GET /users/1
PUT
Updates  a resource with the given URL
PUT /users/1
DELETE
Deletes a resource
DELETE /users/1
