163
Parsing and creating XML with Go
7.3.2
Make the action a property of the resource
If activation is a simple state of the customer account, you can simply make the action
a property of the resource, and then use the PATCH HTTP method to do a partial
update to the resource. For example, you can do this:
PATCH /user/456 HTTP/1.1
{ "active" : "true" }
This code will change the active property of the user resource to true.
7.4
Parsing and creating XML with Go
Now that you’re armed with background knowledge of SOAP and RESTful web ser-
vices, let’s look at how Go can be used to create and consume them. We’ll start with
XML in this section and move on to JSON in the next.
XML is a popular markup language (HTML is another example of a markup lan-
guage) that’s used to represent data in a structured way. It’s probably the most widely
used format for representing structured data as well as for sending and receiving
structured data. XML is a formal recommendation from the W3C, and it’s defined by
W3C’s XML 1.0 specification.
 Regardless of whether you end up writing or consuming web services, knowing
how to create and parse XML is a critical part of your arsenal. One frequent use is to
consume web services from other providers or XML-based feeds like RSS. Even if you’d
never write an XML web service yourself, learning how to interact with XML using Go
will be useful to you. For example, you might need to get data from an RSS newsfeed
and use the data as part of your data source. In this case, you’d have to know how to
parse XML and extract the information you need from it.
 Parsing structured data in Go is quite similar, whether it’s XML or JSON or any
other format. To manipulate XML or JSON, you can use the corresponding XML or
JSON subpackages of the encoding library. For XML, it’s in the encoding/xml library.
7.4.1
Parsing XML
Let’s start with parsing XML, which is most likely what you’ll start doing first. In Go,
you parse the XML into structs, which you can subsequently extract the data from.
This is normally how you parse XML:
1
Create structs to contain the XML data.
2
Use xml.Unmarshal to unmarshal the XML data into the structs, illustrated in
figure 7.2.  
Create structs
to store XML
Unmarshal XML
into structs
Figure 7.2
Parse XML with Go by 
unmarshaling XML into structs
