191
Unit testing with Go
8.1
Go and testing
Go offers a few testing-focused libraries in the standard library. The main test library is
the testing package, which contains most of the functions you’ll see in this chapter.
Another library that’s interesting for web application programming is the net/http/
httptest package. The httptest package, as the name suggests, is a library for testing
web applications; it is based on the testing package.
 Let’s look at the main testing package first. It’s important to start here because
this package provides basic automated testing capabilities in Go. Once you under-
stand the testing package, the httptest package will make a whole lot more sense.
 The testing package is used with the go test command which is used on any Go
source files that end with _test.go. Usually this corresponds with the name of the source
code file you’re testing, although that’s not strictly necessary. 
 If you have a server.go file, you should also have a server_test.go file that contains
all the tests you want to run on the server.go file. The server_test.go file must be in the
same package as the server.go file.
 In the test file you create functions with the following form:
func TestXxx(*testing.T) { … }
where Xxx is any alphanumeric string in which the first letter is capitalized. When you
run the go test command in the console, this and other similar functions will be exe-
cuted. Within these functions you can use Error, Fail, and other methods to indicate
test failure. If there’s no failure, the test for the function is considered to have passed.
Let’s take a closer look.
8.2
Unit testing with Go
Unit testing, as the name indicates, is a kind of automated testing that provides confi-
dence that a unit (a modular part of a program) is correct. Although a unit often cor-
responds to a function or a method, it doesn’t necessarily need to. A good gauge of
whether a part of a program is a unit is if it can be tested independently. A unit typi-
cally takes in data and returns an output, and unit test cases correspondingly pass data
into the unit and check the resultant output to see if they meet the expectations. Unit
tests are usually run in suites, which are groups of unit test cases to validate a particu-
lar behavior.
 In Go, unit test cases are written in _test.go files, grouped according to their func-
tionality. Let’s take a look at a basic example in main.go, where you have a function
that needs to be tested, shown in the following listing. You’ll reuse the code from the
JSON decoding example in listings 7.8 and 7.9.
