205
Test doubles and dependency injection 
 One of the ways you can design for test doubles is to use the dependency injection
design pattern. Dependency injection is a software design pattern that allows you to
decouple the dependencies between two or more layers of software. This is done
through passing a dependency to the called object, structure, or function. This depen-
dency is used to perform the action instead of the object, structure, or function. In
Go, this dependency is often an interface type. Let’s look at an example with the sim-
ple web service in chapter 7.
8.4.1
Dependency injection with Go
In the web service, the handleRequest handler function multiplexes GET requests to
the handleGet function, which extracts the id from the URL and retrieves a Post struct
using the retrieve function in data.go. It uses a global sql.DB struct to open a data-
base connection to a PostgreSQL database and queries the posts table for the data.
 Figure 8.3 shows the function calling flow in the web service in chapter 7. Access to
the database is transparent to the rest of the functions except for the retrieve func-
tion, which will access the database through a global sql.Db instance.
 As you can see, handleRequest and handleGet are dependent on retrieve, which
in turn is dependent on sql.DB. The dependency on sql.DB is the root of the prob-
lem, so you need to remove it. 
 There are a few ways to decouple the dependencies (as with everything). You can
start from the bottom and decouple the dependencies at the data abstraction layer,
where you can get the sql.DB struct directly. You can also go from the top and inject
the sql.DB into handleRequest itself. In this section, I’ll show you how you can do it
from a top-down approach. 
Called by main
handleRequest
handleGet
retrieve
sql.Db
sql.Db is a global variable.
Here, the retrieve function
calls it directly.
PostgreSQL
database
Figure 8.3
The function calling flow of the web service in chapter 7. 
Access to the database is transparent to the rest of the functions except 
for the retrieve function, which will access the database through a 
global sql.Db instance.
