216
CHAPTER 8
Testing your application
OK: 2 passed
PASS
ok    gocheck    0.007s
Notice that the SetUpSuite and TearDownSuite functions are run before and after all
the test cases, whereas the SetUpTest and TearDownTest functions are run within the
test cases as the first and the last statements within the test case functions.
 The check package is a simple but useful addition to your testing arsenal because it
enhances the basic testing package. If you want to do more, try the Ginkgo test
framework.
8.5.2
Introducing the Ginkgo testing framework
Ginkgo is behavior-driven development (BDD)-style testing framework in Go. It’ll take a
much larger space than only this section to discuss BDD, but briefly, BDD is an exten-
sion of test-driven development (TDD) and is a software development process (as opposed
to a testing process). In BDD, software is described by its desired behavior, usually set
by business requirements. User stories (which are requirement definitions in the lan-
guage and perspective of the end user) in BDD are written from a behavioral perspec-
tive. An example of this is in describing your web service is:
Story: Get a post
In order to display a post to the user
As a calling program
I want to get a post
Scenario 1: using an id
Given a post id 1
When I send a GET request with the id
Then I should get a post
Scenario 2: using a non-integer id
Given a post id "hello"
When I send a GET request with the id
Then I should get a HTTP 500 response
Once the user story is defined, it can be converted into a test case. Test cases in BDD,
as in TDD, are written before the code is written, and the aim is to develop a program
that can fulfill the behavior. Admittedly, the user story used as an illustration is con-
trived; in a more realistic environment, BDD user stories are written at a higher-level
first, and then broken down into more specific user stories after a few levels of details.
The higher-level user stories are then mapped into hierarchical test suites. 
 Ginkgo is a feature-rich BDD-style framework. It has constructs that allow you to
map user stories to test cases and is well integrated into the Go testing package.
Ginkgo can be used to drive BDD in Go, but this section explores Ginkgo from the
perspective of it being a test framework in Go.
 To install Ginkgo run these two commands on the console:
go get github.com/onsi/ginkgo/ginkgo 
go get github.com/onsi/gomega
