274
CHAPTER 10
Deploying Go
or they can be hosted in a Docker registry, a repository of Docker images. You can run
your own private Docker registry or use Docker Hub (https://hub.docker.com) as your
registry. Docker Hub hosts both public and private Docker images, though the latter
usually requires a subscription.
 If you install Docker on a Linux OS like Ubuntu, the Docker daemon and the
Docker client are installed in the same machine. With other types of OSes, Docker can
install the client on one type of OS (for example, OS X or Windows), and the daemon
will be installed somewhere else, usually in a VM sitting in that OS. An example of this
is when you install Docker on OS X, the Docker client is installed in OS X and the
Docker daemon will be installed in a VM inside VirtualBox (an x86-based hypervisor). 
 Docker containers are run from Docker images and run on the Docker host.
 Now that you have an overall understanding of Docker, let’s see how you can
deploy a simple Go web service into a Docker container. We’ll be using the same sim-
ple web service we’ve used in the previous three sections.
10.4.4 Dockerizing a Go web application
Despite the plethora of technologies, dockerizing a Go web application is surprisingly
easy. There’s no need for messing with the code because the web service will have full
access to the whole container, so the only work is entirely in the configuration and use
of Docker. Figure 10.7 shows a high-level overview of the steps for dockerizing your
web application and deploying it both locally and to a cloud provider.
Figure 10.7
Steps to dockerize and deploy a Go web application locally and to a cloud provider. To dockerize an 
application locally, use a Dockerfile to create the image and then start a container from the image. To move the 
image to the cloud, create a Docker host in the cloud provider, and then connect to it, build the image in the remote 
host, and start a container from it.
For this section, we’ll use the name ws-d as the name of the web service. First, shown in
the next listing, create a Dockerfile file in the root application directory. 
FROM golang                              
ADD . /go/src/github.com/sausheong/ws-d    
WORKDIR /go/src/github.com/sausheong/ws-d
Listing 10.7
Dockerfile for simple web service
Create Docker
container from
Docker image
Create
Dockerfile
Create Docker
host in cloud
provider
Connect to
remote
Docker host
Build Docker
image in
remote host
Start Docker
container in
remote host
Build Docker
image with
Dockerfile
Deploy to local
Deploy to cloud provider
Starts from a Debian image 
with Go installed and a 
GOPATH configured at /go.
Copies the local package files 
to the container’s workspace.
