275
Deploying to Docker
RUN go get github.com/lib/pq     
RUN go install github.com/sausheong/ws-d
ENTRYPOINT /go/bin/ws-d    
EXPOSE 8080    
The first line tells Docker to start from the golang image, which is a Debian image
with the latest Go installed, and a workspace configured at /go. The next two lines
copy the local code (in the current directory) to the container and set the working
directory accordingly. After that, you use the RUN command to tell Docker to get the
PostgreSQL driver and build the web service code, placing the executable binaries in
/go/bin. Once you have that, use the ENTRYPOINT command to tell Docker to run
/go/bin/ws-d by default whenever the container is started. Finally, use EXPOSE to
expose the port 8080 to other containers. Note that this doesn’t open up port 8080 to
the public; it simply opens up the port to other containers in the same machine.
 Now build the image from the Dockerfile:
docker build –t ws-d .
This command will execute the Dockerfile and build a local image based on the
instructions in it. Once this is done, you can issue the docker images command and
you should see this:
REPOSITORY     TAG          IMAGE ID         CREATED          VIRTUAL SIZE
ws-d           latest       65e8437fce6b     10 minutes ago   534.7 MB
Now that you have the image, you can now run the image to create and start the
container:
docker run --publish 80:8080 --name simple_web_service --rm  ws-d
This code will create a container, using the name simple_web_service from the image
ws-d. The flag --publish 80:8080 opens up the HTTP port 80 and maps it to the
exposed port 8080 earlier, whereas the flag --rm tells Docker that once the container
exits, it should be removed. If this flag isn’t set, when the container exits it will still
remain and can be simply started up again. To see whether your container has been
created, issue
docker ps
You should see your container in the list of active containers:
CONTAINER ID  IMAGE ...  PORTS                  NAMES
eeb674e289a4  ws-d  ...  0.0.0.0:80->8080/tcp   simple_web_service
Builds the
ws-d
command
inside the
container.
Runs the ws-d command by default 
when the container starts.
Documents that the 
service listens on port 8080.
