121
TECHNIQUE 24
Handling back pressure in network logging
 Specifically, when a message is sent as a TCP/IP packet, the receiver is obligated to
respond to the packet by acknowledging (ACK) that the message was received. It’s pos-
sible (and even likely) that one log message may become more than one packet sent
across the network. Say a log message is split into two separate packets. The remote
logger would then receive the first part and send an ACK. Then the client would send
the second half, to which the logger would also send an ACK. With this system, the cli-
ent gains some assurance that the data it sent was indeed received by the remote host.
 That’s all well and good until the remote host slows down. Imagine a log server that’s
receiving thousands of messages from many clients at once. With all of that data coming
in, it may slow down. But while it slows, the quantity of logs coming in doesn’t diminish.
And with TCP, the log server must send an ACK for each new message that comes in.
When it delays sending the ACK, the client sits waiting. The client
must slow down too, as its resources are tied up waiting for log
messages to send. This is the scenario known as back pressure.
 One solution to the back-pressure problem is to switch from
TCP to UDP. By doing this, you get rid of connection overhead at
the protocol level. And most significantly, the application
doesn’t need to wait for ACK messages from the log server. Fig-
ure 5.3 illustrates this method.
 UDP requires no network connection maintenance. The cli-
ent sends information to the server whenever it’s ready. And
altering the Go code from listing 5.3 is simple, as you can see in
the next listing.
package main
import (
     "log"
     "net"
     "time"
)
func main() {
     timeout := 30 * time.Second
     conn, err := net.DialTimeout("udp", "localhost:1902", timeout)
     if err != nil {
            panic("Failed to connect to localhost:1902")
     }
     defer     conn.Close()
     f := log.Ldate | log.Lshortfile
     logger := log.New(conn, "example ", f)
     logger.Println("This is a regular message.")
     logger.Panicln("This is a panic.")
}
Listing 5.4
UDP-based logging
Adds an explicit 
timeout
Dials a UDP connection
instead of a TCP one
App
Logger
Msg 1
Msg 2
App
Logger
Figure 5.3
UDP log 
messages
