132
CHAPTER 5
Debugging and testing
     m.subject = subject
     m.body = body
     return nil
}
func TestAlert(t *testing.T) {
     msgr := new(MockMessage)
     body := []byte("Critical Error")
     Alert(msgr, body)
     if msgr.subject != "Critical Error" {
            t.Errorf("Expected 'Critical Error', Got '%s'", msgr.subject)
     }
     // ...
}
You implement the Messager interface with the MockMessage type. That type provides
the same functions that your production code uses, but instead of sending the mes-
sage, it stores the data. You can then conveniently test that the information sent to the
Messager is indeed what you expect.
 This is a simple and powerful technique for writing good tests. As an additional
bonus, abstracting with interfaces in this way makes it easier to later change imple-
mentations. The pattern lends itself to modular programming.
TECHNIQUE 28
Verifying interfaces with canary tests
The preceding example illustrated a technique that relies on using interfaces to
describe an existing set of functions. Sometimes, though, subtle errors in interface
definitions may cause runtime headaches. This is especially true when you’re either
relying on type assertions or using external libraries whose function signatures change
often. One trivially simple testing technique can save you some needless headaches.
PROBLEM
You want to make sure that the interfaces you’re defining describe the things that
you’re intending to describe. This is useful in four cases:
When you’re exporting types that implement external interfaces.
When you create interface types that describe external types.
Creates a new 
MockMessage
Runs the Alert method 
with your mock
Accesses the MockMessage
properties to verify results
Interfaces change infrequently
Ideally, after an interface is exported and made public, it shouldn’t be changed. But
in the world of software development, this expectation isn’t always met. Library
authors do occasionally change interfaces to fix poor design or to add new features.
These days, it’s considered okay to change interfaces as long as you indicate this by
increasing the major version number of your program (for example, 1.2.3 becomes
2.0.0). Be aware, though, that many projects—including some major ones—don’t fol-
low this recommendation.
