117
TECHNIQUE 22
Logging to an arbitrary writer
$ cat log.txt
example 2015/05/12 08:42:51 outfile.go:16: This is a regular message.
example 2015/05/12 08:42:51 outfile.go:17: This is a fatal error.
As before, only two of the three logger.Log calls succeed because the second one also
generates a fatal error. But you can see from the file how the Go logger logs the data.
Roughly speaking, you can break a log message into three parts: the prefix, the auto-
matically generated information, and the log message itself, as shown in figure 5.1.
You can control the prefix field with the second argument to log.New. As you may
have noticed, when we created our logger, the prefix had a trailing whitespace (after
example). That wasn’t an accident. By default, the logger doesn’t put any space
between the prefix and the generated data.
 When it comes to the generated information, you don’t have direct control over
the information, but you have some degree of indirect control. For example,
although you can’t format the date and time fields exactly as you’d like, you can set
flags that determine how specific the log message is. When creating the log.Logger,
the third argument is a bitmask of flags. As you saw in this example, we passed in the
flags log.LstdFlags | log.Lshortfile. This sets the date format and then instructs
the logger to show the file and line info. (You might notice that those are also high-
lighted bold in figure 5.1.)
 For the most part, only two pieces of information are automatically generated for
you: information about when the event happened and information about where it hap-
pened. With the date and time information, you can set the precision of the timestamp:

Ldate controls printing the date.

Ltime prints the timestamp.

Lmicrosends adds microsecond precision to the time. This automatically results
in the time being printed, even if Ltime isn’t set.

LstdFlags turns on both Ldate and Ltime.
Then a pair of flags deals with the location information:

Llongfile shows a full file path and then the line number: /foo/bar/baz.go:123.

Lshortifle shows just the filename and the line number: baz.go:123.
Prefix
Generated Message Data
Message
example 2015/05/12 08:42:51
outfile.go:16:
This is a regular message.
Ldate
Ltime
Lmicroseconds
LstdFlags
Llongfile
Lshortfile
Figure 5.1
Components of a log file
