115
Logging
application’s running lifetime. For example, a quick peek at a web server’s log file
should reveal when the server was last started, whether it has encountered any abnor-
mal conditions, and whether it’s handling requests.
5.2.1
Using Go’s logger
Go provides two built-in packages for logging: log and log/syslog. We’ll talk about
the main package first, and in section 5.2.2 we’ll turn to the syslog package.
 The log package provides basic support (mainly in the form of formatting) for
writing log messages. In its simplest usage, it formats messages and sends them to
Standard Error, as shown in the following listing.
package main
import (
     "log"
)
func main() {
     log.Println("This is a regular message.")
     log.Fatalln("This is a fatal error.")
     log.Println("This is the end of the function.")
}
If you were to run this code, the output would look something like this:
$ go run simple.go
2015/04/27 08:18:36 This is a regular message.
2015/04/27 08:18:36 This is a fatal error.
exit status 1
We have a few things to point out about this example. The first is that the error mes-
sages are all sent to Standard Error, regardless of whether the message is an actual
error or an informational message. If you glance at the godocs for the log package,
you’ll notice that it doesn’t distinguish between message types. But it does make a sec-
ond distinction, and that leads us to our other point.
 When you call log.Fatalln or any of the other “fatal” calls, the library prints the
error message and then calls os.Exit(1), forcing the program to quit. Additionally,
log.Panic calls log an error message and then issue a panic.
 The log functions all have printf-style variants so that you can insert information
into your log message string: log.Printf("The value of i is %s", i).
 Practically speaking, we haven’t found the basic logging functions to be all that
useful. Although some momentum exists in the Docker/container world behind log-
ging to Standard Out and Standard Error, the prevailing wisdom seems to be that log
messages should be sent to either a logging service or a designated file. To that end,
we’ve gotten a lot more use out of the log.Logger type that’s also in the package.
Listing 5.1
Simple log usage
Writes a message
to os.Stderr
Writes a message to 
os.Stderr and then exits 
with an error code
This never gets executed.
