120
CHAPTER 5
Debugging and testing
$ nc -lk 1902
example 2015/05/27 log_client.go:23: This is a regular message.
example 2015/05/27 log_client.go:24: This is a panic.
These messages made their way from the example client to the simple server you’re
running on nc. You have a nice, simple network logging utility. But you may also have
a problem here in the form of a culprit commonly known as back pressure.
TECHNIQUE 24
Handling back pressure in network logging
In the previous technique, you saw how to log messages to a network server. Logging
to a network offers compelling advantages:
Logs from many services can be aggregated to one central location.
In the cloud, servers with only ephemeral storage can still have logs preserved.
Security and auditability are improved.
You can tune log servers and app servers differently.
But there’s one major drawback to sending your log messages to a remote logging
server: you’re dependent on the network. In this technique, you’ll see how to deal
with network-based issues in logging.
PROBLEM
Network log services are prone to connection failures and back pressure. This leads to
lost log messages and sometimes even service failures.
SOLUTION
Build a more resilient logger that buffers data.
DISCUSSION
You’re likely to run into two major networking issues:
The logger’s network connection drops (either
because the network is down or because the remote
logger is down).
The connection over which the logs are sent slows
down.
The first problem is familiar to us all and is clearly a prob-
lem to be addressed. The second is a little less obvious.
 Listing 5.3 detailed a rough sequence of events. Let’s
trace it out at a high level, as shown in figure 5.2. (The
network mechanics are a little more complicated, but you
don’t need to know them to understand the situation.)
 Your application first opens a TCP connection, then
sends messages, then closes the connection. But some-
thing you don’t see in your code is the response from the
logger. This is because things are going on at the TCP
layer that don’t bubble up into the application code. 
App
Logger
App
Logger
TCP COnnect
Ack
Msg 1
Ack
Msg 2
Ack
Close
Figure 5.2
Sending messages 
over TCP
