126
CHAPTER 5
Debugging and testing
 
The Go syslog library comes with various logging functions, most of them mapping to
severity. Each call to a logging function sends the message to the system logger, which
can then decide (based on its own rules) what to do with the message.
 If you run the preceding example and then look at the syslog file, you should see
something like this:
Jun 30 08:52:06 technosophos narwhal[76635]: Notice message.
Jun 30 08:52:06 technosophos narwhal[76635]: Warning message.
Jun 30 08:52:06 technosophos narwhal[76635]: Alert message.
The first few fields are the timestamp and hostname. Those are generated by the sys-
log. Next comes the label, which you set as narwhal. After that, the system adds the
process ID (PID). Finally, it sends your message. The order and format of the syslog-
generated fields vary depending on the configuration of the logger.
 You logged four messages, but only three are displayed. The call to syslog.Debug
isn’t present. The reason is that the system log used to run the example is configured
to not send debug messages to the log file. If you wanted to see debug messages, you’d
need to alter the configuration of your system’s syslog facility. The nice thing about
this setup is that you, as the developer, don’t have to make decisions about what’s dis-
played and under what circumstances. You can leave that choice up to those who use
the application. 
 This section has covered many of the common log message types, but there
remains one common tool we programmers often value for debugging. Sometimes it’s
handy to log a stack trace.
5.3
Accessing stack traces
Many languages provide access to the call stack. A stack trace (or stack dump) provides a
human-readable list of the functions being used at the time the stack is captured. For
example, imagine a program in which main calls foo, which then calls bar. The bar
function then dumps a stack trace. The trace would be three calls deep, showing how
bar is the current function, called by foo, which is in turn called by main.
TECHNIQUE 26
Capturing stack traces
Stack traces can give developers critical insight into what’s happening on the system.
They’re useful for logging and debugging. Go makes it possible to access the stack
trace at any given point in program execution.
Logging to a remote syslog
Go also provides a syslog.Dial function that allows you to connect to a remote sys-
log daemon. Network-attached syslog daemons are useful for aggregating logs
across a variety of servers. Many times, the local syslog is proxied to such a remote
server. But the syslog.Dial function is there for the occasions when you need to
connect directly to a remote logging server.
