204
CHAPTER 8
Testing your application
  if post.Id != 1 {
    t.Errorf("Cannot retrieve JSON post")
  }
}
func TestHandlePut(t *testing.T) {
  json := strings.NewReader(`{"content":"Updated post","author":"Sau 
Sheong"}`)
  request, _ := http.NewRequest("PUT", "/post/1", json)
  mux.ServeHTTP(writer, request)
  if writer.Code != 200 {
    t.Errorf("Response code is %v", writer.Code)
  }
}
Notice that the setUp function sets up the global variables that are used in each of the
test case functions. This makes the test case functions more concise, and any changes
to how the test cases are set up are concentrated in a single place. There isn’t a need
for cleaning up after the tests so you simply exit after the test cases are run.
 But you didn’t test an important part of the web service. As you’ll recall, in chapter
7 you abstracted the data layer away from the web service and placed all the data
manipulation code in the data.go file. The handleGet function calls a retrieve func-
tion, whereas the handlePut function calls the retrieve function and an update
method on the Post struct. When you run the unit test cases, you’re actually getting
and modifying data in the database. This is a dependency, and therefore the test cases
aren’t as independent as you’d like them to be.
 How do you get around this? 
8.4
Test doubles and dependency injection 
One popular way of making the unit test cases more independent is using test doubles.
Test doubles are simulations of objects, structures, or functions that are used during
testing when it’s inconvenient to use the actual object, structure, or function. It’s also
often used within the context of automated unit testing because it increases the inde-
pendency of the code being tested. 
 An example is when the code being tested involves sending of emails. Naturally
you don’t want to send out emails during unit testing. One way of getting around that
is to create test doubles that simulate sending emails. You’d create test doubles to
remove the dependency of your unit test cases on an actual database.
 The concept seems straightforward enough. During automated testing, you create
test doubles and use them instead of using the actual functions or structs. However,
this approach requires design prior to coding the program. If you don’t have the idea
of using test doubles in mind during design, you might not be able to do it at all. For
example, in the previous section the design of the web service doesn’t allow you to cre-
ate test doubles for testing. This is because the dependency on the database is embed-
ded deep into the code.
