Log levels
Though they are very common in web application development, it will be
beneficial to review the various log levels. During application development,
developers either log too much or too little, which leads to problems. It is
important to log when appropriate. It may not be appropriate to log various data-
structure-specific information in a higher log level, as it might not be appropriate
to log important error messages in a lower log level. Information leakage is also
important, a prime example of which would be accidentally logging secrets from
the application to the logging facilities.
The debug level can be thought of as a level of logging that might be useful for a
developer when troubleshooting how an application works. Developers often end
up merely putting every log entry they emit in the debug level. This is not a wise
idea, as in production environments, you typically do not want the debug logs to
spew for the entirety of the application run. Operations will not usually run an
application in a production that is running at a debug log level, and therefore, if
you use debug too liberally, it is possible for important information to not be
logged when exceptional issues arise.
The info level is primarily used as a level to log information that does not report
an error, but which is useful for operational purposes. Typical examples of good
info-level logging would be client connection information. Very often, this
information, such as the remote address connection, the time taken to serve the
request method, and the full path requested are valuable bits of information. This
information could be used by operations for debugging or load information, and
should be logged at the info level. Very typically, the info level is where
production logging will be set in order to avoid capturing all of the verbosity of a
debug log level.
The warn level is typically used to explain that a recoverable error was
encountered that the system has since recovered from, but that someone should
probably look into the issue. Since warn is a higher level than info, if you have
your log level set at info, warn messages will be emitted too. These bits of
information are very valuable to operations teams, as the teams can get an idea
