Package Management
85
elements to public and make it available on other projects, how do we declare them in a package
file similar to Gemfile and use a similar package manager tool like bundler?
The default package manager for Go is Go Modules, however there are still many applications that
uses dep, because dep for many years, was the most popular package manager before. We will focus
on two ways to manage packages in Go, using built-in Go Modules and dep for legacy applications.
Questions
1. What do we learn about distributing Go package?
We learned that Go uses GOPATH to store packages and that we can use import to load
packages. We also learned that we can use package to declare public functions and structs
and that we can use import to access them.
2. What is GOPATH?
GOPATH is the environment variable that Go uses to store packages, libraries, binaries and
Golang compiler itself. Using GOPATH, Go will store remote packages to $GOPATH/src, i.e.
$GOPATH/src/example.com/foo. It is also the path where Go will search for packages.
3. How do we declare functions, structs and variables public in Go?
In Go, any capitalized functions, structs and variables are public.
4. How do you import packages in Go?
You can use import to load packages in Go.
5. What is Go dep?
Go dep is a dependency management tool for Go. It is similar to Ruby’s bundler and Node’s
npm. It is a tool that will help you manage your Go packages and their dependencies.
6. What is Go Modules?
Go Modules is the official package manager for Go. It is a built-in package manager that
will be part of the Go language. It is developed by the Go team and was released in 1.11.
Package Management using Go Modules
Go has a built-in package manager that is available on Go version 1.11 and higher. Type go version
to check if your Go environment supports it. To use Go Modules on Go 1.11, you need to export an
environment variable GO111MODULE with a value of on.
1
export GO111MODULE=on
You can either set the value of the variable to either on, off or auto. If the environment
variable is unset, the default value to use is auto, but it must meet two conditions: 1. The
project should not be on $GOPATH/src directory, 2. The project root contains a go.mod file.
