5
1.3
100 Go mistakes
radiation doses that were hundreds of times greater than expected, leading to the
death of three patients. Hence, software bugs aren’t only about money. As developers,
we should remember how impactful our jobs are.
 This book covers plenty of cases that could lead to various software bugs, including
data races, leaks, logic errors, and other defects. Although accurate tests should be a
way to discover such bugs as early as possible, we may sometimes miss cases because of
different factors such as time constraints or complexity. Therefore, as a Go developer,
it’s essential to make sure we avoid common bugs. 
1.3.2
Needless complexity
The next category of mistakes is related to unnecessary complexity. A significant part
of software complexity comes from the fact that, as developers, we strive to think
about imaginary futures. Instead of solving concrete problems right now, it can be
tempting to build evolutionary software that could tackle whatever future use case
arises. However, this leads to more drawbacks than benefits in most cases because it
can make a codebase more complex to understand and reason about.
 Getting back to Go, we can think of plenty of use cases where developers might be
tempted to design abstractions for future needs, such as interfaces or generics. This
book discusses topics where we should remain careful not to harm a codebase with
needless complexity. 
1.3.3
Weaker readability
Another kind of mistake is to weaken readability. As Robert C. Martin wrote in his
book Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship, the ratio of time spent
reading versus writing is well over 10 to 1.5 Most of us started to program on solo proj-
ects where readability wasn’t that important. However, today’s software engineering is
programming with a time dimension: making sure we can still work with and maintain
an application months, years, or perhaps even decades later.
 When programming in Go, we can make many mistakes that can harm readability.
These mistakes may include nested code, data type representations, or not using
named result parameters in some cases. Throughout this book, we will learn how to
write readable code and care for future readers (including our future selves). 
1.3.4
Suboptimal or unidiomatic organization
Be it while working on a new project or because we acquire inaccurate reflexes,
another type of mistake is organizing our code and a project suboptimally and unidi-
omatically. Such issues can make a project harder to reason about and maintain. This
book covers some of these common mistakes in Go. For example, we’ll look at how to
structure a project and deal with utility packages or init functions. All in all, looking at
these mistakes should help us organize our code and projects more efficiently and idi-
omatically. 
5 R. C. Martin, Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship. Prentice Hall, 2008.
