4
CHAPTER 1
Go: Simple to learn but hard to master
1.3
100 Go mistakes
Why should we read a book about common Go mistakes? Why not deepen our knowl-
edge with an ordinary book that would dig into different topics?
 In a 2011 article, neuroscientists proved that the best time for brain growth is when
we’re facing mistakes.2 Haven’t we all experienced the process of learning from a mis-
take and recalling that occasion after months or even years, when some context
related to it? As presented in another article, by Janet Metcalfe, this happens because
mistakes have a facilitative effect.3 The main idea is that we can remember not only
the error but also the context surrounding the mistake. This is one of the reasons why
learning from mistakes is so efficient.
 To strengthen this facilitative effect, this book accompanies each mistake as much
as possible with real-world examples. This book isn’t only about theory; it also helps us
get better at avoiding mistakes and making more well-informed, conscious decisions
because we now understand the rationale behind them.
Tell me and I forget. Teach me and I remember. Involve me and I learn.
                                                                                                           —Unknown
This book presents seven main categories of mistakes. Overall, the mistakes can be
classified as
Bugs
Needless complexity
Weaker readability
Suboptimal or unidiomatic organization
Lack of API convenience
Under-optimized code
Lack of productivity
We introduce each mistake category next.
1.3.1
Bugs
The first type of mistake and probably the most obvious is software bugs. In 2020, a
study conducted by Synopsys estimated the cost of software bugs in the U.S. alone to
be over $2 trillion.4
 Furthermore, bugs can also lead to tragic impacts. We can, for example, mention
cases such as Therac-25, a radiation therapy machine produced by Atomic Energy of
Canada Limited (AECL). Because of a race condition, the machine gave its patients
2 J. S. Moser, H. S. Schroder, et al., “Mind Your Errors: Evidence for a Neural Mechanism Linking Growth Mind-
set to Adaptive Posterror Adjustments,” Psychological Science, vol. 22, no. 12, pp. 1484–1489, Dec. 2011.
3 J. Metcalfe, “Learning from Errors,” Annual Review of Psychology, vol. 68, pp. 465–489, Jan. 2017.
4 Synopsys, “The Cost of Poor Software Quality in the US: A 2020 Report.” 2020. https://news.synopsys.com/
2021-01-06-Synopsys-Sponsored-CISQ-Research-Estimates-Cost-of-Poor-Software-Quality-in-the-US-2-08
-Trillion-in-2020.
