3
Solving modern programming challenges with Go
1.1.1
Development speed
Compiling a large application in C or C++ takes more
time than getting a cup of coffee. Figure 1.1 shows an
XKCD classic excuse for messing around in the office.
 Go offers lightning-quick compiles by using a
smart compiler and simplified dependency resolu-
tion algorithms. When you build a Go program, the
compiler only needs to look at the libraries that you
directly include, rather than traversing the depen-
dencies of all the libraries that are included in the
entire dependency chain like Java, C, and C++. Con-
sequently, many Go applications compile in under a
second. The entire Go source tree compiles in under
20 seconds on modern hardware.
 Writing applications in dynamic languages makes you productive quickly because
there are no intermediate steps between writing code and executing it. The trade-off
is that dynamic languages don’t offer the type safety that static languages do and often
need a comprehensive test suite to avoid discovering incorrect type bugs at runtime. 
 Imagine writing a large application in a dynamic language like JavaScript and com-
ing across a function that expects to receive a field called ID. Is that an integer, a
string, or a UUID? The way to find out is to look at the source. You could try to execute
the function with a number or a string and see what happens. In Go, you wouldn’t
spend time wondering, because the compiler will catch type differences for you. 
1.1.2
Concurrency
One of the hardest things to do as a programmer is to write an application that effec-
tively uses the available resources of the hardware running it. Modern computers have
many cores, but most programming languages don’t have effective tools for utilizing
those additional resources easily. They often require a lot of thread synchronization
code, which is prone to errors. 
 Go’s concurrency support is one of its strongest features. Goroutines are like
threads, but use far less memory and require less code to use. Channels are data struc-
tures that let you send typed messages between goroutines with synchronization built
in. This facilitates a programming model where you send data between goroutines,
rather than letting the goroutines fight to use the same data. Let’s look at these fea-
tures in more detail now. 
GOROUTINES
Goroutines are functions that run concurrently with other goroutines, including the
entry point of your program. In other languages, you’d use threads to accomplish the
same thing, but in Go many goroutines execute on a single thread. For example, if you
write a web server and you want to handle different web requests simultaneously, you’d
have to write a lot of extra code to use threads in C or Java. In Go, the net/http library
Figure 1.1
Working hard? 
(via XKCD)
