6
CHAPTER 1
Introducing Go
an interface in Go; the compiler does the work of determining whether values of your
types satisfy the interfaces you’re using. Many interfaces in Go’s standard library are
very small, exposing only a few functions. In practice this takes some time to get used
to, especially if you’ve been writing in object-oriented languages like Java. 
TYPES ARE SIMPLE
Go has built-in types like int and string as well as user-defined types. A typical user-
defined type in Go will have typed fields to store data. If you’ve seen structs in C, Go’s
user-defined types will look familiar and operate similarly. But types may also declare
methods that operate on that data. Rather than building a long inheritance struc-
ture—Client extends User extends Entity—Go developers build small types—Cus-
tomer and Admin—and embed them into larger ones. Figure 1.4 demonstrates the
difference between inheritance and composition.   
GO INTERFACES MODEL SMALL BEHAVIORS
Interfaces allow you to express the behavior of a type. If a value of a type implements
an interface, it means the value has a specific set of behaviors. You don’t even need to
declare that you’re implementing an interface; you just need to write the implementa-
tion. Other languages call this duck typing—if it quacks like a duck, then it can be a
duck—and Go does it well. In Go, if your type implements the methods of an inter-
face, a value of your type can be stored in a value of that interface type. No special dec-
larations are required. 
 In a strictly object-oriented language like Java, interfaces are all-encompassing.
You’re often required to think through a large inheritance chain before you’re able to
even start writing code. Here’s an example of a Java interface: 
interface User {
public void login();
public void logout();
}
Implementing this interface in Java requires you to create a class that fulfills all of the
promises made in the User interface and explicitly declare that you implement the
interface. In contrast, a Go interface typically represents just a single action. One of
the most common interfaces you’ll use in Go is io.Reader. The io.Reader interface
Drive
Passengers
Cargo
Inheritance
Vehicle
Passenger vehicle
Truck
Composition
Truck
Carry cargo
Carry passengers
Drive
Figure 1.4
Inheritance 
versus composition
