2
CHAPTER 1
Introducing Go
 In this chapter you’ll see how Go is different from other programming languages.
Go rethinks the traditional object-oriented development you might be used to, while
still providing an efficient means for code reuse. Go makes it easier for you to effec-
tively use all of the cores on your expensive server, and it takes away the penalty of
compiling a very large project. 
 As you read this chapter, you’ll get a feeling for the many decisions that shaped the
creation of Go, from its concurrency model to its lightning-fast compiler. We
mentioned it in the preface, but it bears repeating: this book has been written for an
intermediate-level developer who has some experience with other programming lan-
guages and wants to learn Go. Our goal in writing this book is to provide you an inten-
sive, comprehensive, and idiomatic view of the language. We focus on both the
specification and implementation of the language, including the wide-ranging topics
of language syntax, Go’s type system, concurrency, channels, testing, and more. We
believe this book is perfect for anyone who wants a jump-start in learning Go or who
wants a more thorough understanding of the language and its internals.
 The source code for the examples in the book is available at https://github.com/
goinaction/code.
 We hope you’ll appreciate the tools that ship with Go to make your life as a devel-
oper easier. In the end, you’ll appreciate why so many developers are choosing Go
when they start up that new project.
1.1
Solving modern programming challenges with Go
The Go team went to great lengths to solve the problems facing software developers
today. Developers have to make an uncomfortable choice between rapid development
and performance when choosing a language for their projects. Languages like C and
C++ offer fast execution, whereas languages like Ruby and Python offer rapid develop-
ment. Go bridges these competing worlds and offers a high-performance language
with features that make development fast. 
 As we explore Go, you’ll find well-planned features and concise syntax. As a lan-
guage, Go is defined not only by what it includes, but by what it doesn’t include. Go
has a concise syntax with few keywords to memorize. Go has a compiler that’s so fast,
sometimes you’ll forget it’s running. As a Go developer, you’ll spend significantly less
time waiting for your project to build. Because of Go’s built-in concurrency features,
your software will scale to use the resources available without forcing you to use spe-
cial threading libraries. Go uses a simple and effective type system that takes much of
the overhead out of object-oriented development and lets you focus on code reuse.
Go also has a garbage collector, so you don’t have to manage your own memory. Let’s
look quickly at these key features.    
