ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
xvii
Matt Butcher
I began writing this book at Revolv, continued when Google/Nest acquired us, and
finished at Deis. Thanks to all three for supporting the writing of this book. Thanks to
Brian Hardock, Cristian Cavalli, Lann Martin, and Chris Ching, all of whom served as
early sounding boards. Matt Boersma provided helpful feedback for several chapters.
Kent Rancourt and Aaron Schlesinger each inspired particular code examples in this
book. Matt Fisher, Sivaram Mothiki, Keerthan Mala, Helgi Þorbjörnsson (yes, Helgi, I
copied and pasted that), Gabe Monroy, Chris Armstrong, Sam Boyer, Jeff Bleiel,
Joshua Anderson, Rimas Mocevicius, Jack Francis, and Josh Lane all (wittingly or
unwittingly) influenced specific portions of this book. The impact of Michelle Noorali
and Adam Reese cannot be understated; I’ve learned a lot watching a couple of Ruby
developers master Go. And thanks to Angie, Annabelle, Claire, and Katherine for
their unflagging support and understanding.
Matt Farina
I would like to thank Kristin, my beautiful and amazing wife, along with our wonderful
daughters, Isabella and Aubrey, for their love and support.
 I wrote this book while working at Hewlett Packard Enterprise, formerly Hewlett-
Packard. Working at HPE has taught me invaluable lessons while providing me with
the opportunity to work alongside and learn from those far wiser than myself. Specifi-
cally, I need to thank Rajeev Pandey, Brian Aker, Steve McLellan, Erin Handgen, Eric
Gustafson, Mike Hagedorn, Susan Balle, David Graves, and many others. They have
affected the way I write and operate applications, and that has shown up in these
chapters in subtle ways.
 There have been many others who influenced portions of this book, sometimes
without realizing it. Thanks to Tim Pletcher, Jason Buberel, Sam Boyer, Larry Gar-
field, and all those I may have forgotten who had a positive influence.
 Finally, I want to thank Matt Butcher. I never imagined authoring books until you
suckered me into it. Thanks! 
