6
CHAPTER 1
Getting into Go
 Although the core of the language is fairly simple, the Go built-in package system
enables you to add many aspects. Many of the missing elements can be built as a third-
party package and incorporated into applications via the package system.
 The minimal size and complexity has benefits. The language can be learned
quickly and easily retained. This turns out to be quite a benefit when quickly crafting
and iterating over a codebase.
1.2
Noteworthy aspects of Go
Because Go is designed around practical situations, it has several noteworthy features.
These useful characteristics, when used together, provide the building blocks for Go
applications.
1.2.1
Multiple return values
One of the first things you’ll learn in Go is that functions and methods can return
multiple values. Most programming languages support returning a single value from a
function. When you need to return multiple values, they’re shoehorned into a tuple,
hash, or other type, and that value is returned. Go is one of the few languages natively
supporting multiple return values. This feature is regularly used, and something you’ll
see in virtually every part of Go and the libraries and applications written in it. For
example, consider the following function that returns two string names.
package main
import (
    "fmt"
)
func Names() (string, string) {
    return "Foo", "Bar"
}
func main() {
    n1, n2 := Names()
    fmt.Println(n1, n2)
    n3, _ := Names()
    fmt.Println(n3)
}
TIP
Imported packages used in this chapter, such as fmt, bufio, net, and
others, are part of the standard library. More details, including their APIs and
how they work, can be found at https://golang.org/pkg.
In this example, each return is defined in the function definition after the arguments
B. In this case, there are two string values. When return is called, it returns two
strings C to match the definition. When the Names function is called, you need to
have a variable for each return to capture the value D. But if you want to ignore one
Listing 1.1
Multiple returns: returns.go
Two strings defined for return
B
Two strings are returned.
C
Variables get two values 
and print them.
D
Gets first return value and skips second
E
