13
Noteworthy aspects of Go
Using channels and goroutines together provides functionality similar to lightweight
threads or internal micro-services that communicate over a type-defined API. These
can be chained or pieced together by using various techniques.
 You’ll return to goroutines and channels, two of Go’s most powerful concepts, sev-
eral times in this book. You’ll see how they’re used to write servers, handle message
passing, and delay the execution of tasks. You’ll also examine design patterns for
working with goroutines and channels.
1.2.4
Go the toolchain—more than a language
Developing modern scalable and maintainable applications requires many elements.
Compiling isn’t the only common step. From the beginning, Go had this in mind. Go
is more than a language and compiler. The go executable is a toolchain enabling
lightweight package management, testing, documentation generation, and more, in
addition to being able to compile a Go codebase into an executable. To illustrate, let’s
look at a few of the components in the toolchain.
PACKAGE MANAGEMENT
Many modern programming languages have package managers, but how many have
package management built right in? Go does, and this proves to be useful for two
important reasons. The obvious reason is programmer productivity. The second rea-
son is faster compile time. Package handling was designed with a compiler in mind.
It’s one of the reasons the compiler is so fast.
 The easiest way to ease into packages is to look at the standard library (see the fol-
lowing listing), which is built on the package system.
package main
import "fmt"
func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello World!")
}
Packages are imported by their name. In this case, fmt is the format package. Every-
thing in the package that can be referenced is available with the package name as the
prefix. Here you have fmt.Println:
import (
    "fmt"
    "net/http"
)
Package imports can be grouped together and should be in alphabetical order. In this
case, the net/http package is referenced with the http. prefix.
 The import system works with packages from outside the Go standard library, and
those packages are referenced just like any other package:
Listing 1.9
Single package import
The fmt package is imported.
A function from fmt is used.
