21
Go in the vast language landscape
processes for the different connections, Go shares an environment, allowing you to
share resources where it makes sense.
 Under the hood in the primary implementation, Python and PHP are built in C.
Built-in objects, methods, and functions, whose implementation is in C, execute more
quickly than application objects, methods, and functions. The code written for an
application takes a different path that includes an intermediate format that’s inter-
preted. One of the performance tips for both Python and PHP is to take performance-
critical code and rewrite it in C.
 Go applications compile into a binary. Software in the standard library and appli-
cation code are both compiled into machine code. There’s no distinction.
1.3.4
JavaScript, Node.js, and Go
JavaScript came into being in just over 10 days. It went on to be one of the most popu-
lar languages in the world, as it was baked into all the major web browsers. More
recently, JavaScript has been used on servers, in desktop applications, and in other
areas. This was driven by the Node.js platform.
 Go and JavaScript, primarily through Node.js, can fill a similar space but do so in
different ways. Exploring how they fill the space differently helps to highlight where
Go fits in the space.
 JavaScript has a single-threaded model. Although asynchronous I/O may use sepa-
rate threads, the main program executes in a single thread. When code in the main
thread takes a significant amount of time, it blocks other code from executing. Go
uses a multithreaded model in which the runtime manages goroutines running con-
currently on the different threads. The Go model, with multiple threads running
across multiple cores, can take advantage of more of the available hardware than the
single thread used in JavaScript.
 Node.js uses the V8 engine created by Google and used in Google Chrome. The V8
engine contains a virtual machine with a JIT compiler. This is conceptually similar to
Java. The virtual machine and JIT can lead to some performance improvements. As V8
watches a long-running program execute, it can improve performance over time. For
example, it can look at the execution of a loop and see ways to improve the perfor-
mance beyond the direct machine code because it knows the context. V8 also knows a
variable type even though JavaScript is dynamically typed. The longer a program runs,
the more V8 can learn and improve the performance.
 On the other hand, Go programs are compiled machine code and execute at stati-
cally typed machine-code speeds. No JIT is looking to improve runtime execution. As
in C, there’s no practical need for a JIT.
PACKAGE HANDLING
The Node.js ecosystem has a community and tooling surrounding the handling and dis-
tribution of packages. These can range from libraries to command-line utilities to full
applications. The package manager npm is often bundled with installation of Node.js. A
central repository of information about packages is available at www.npmjs.org. When
