24
CHAPTER 1
Getting into Go
If you’d like to install binaries to an alternative location, the GOBIN environment vari-
able can be set to that path. This is an optional environment variable.
1.5
Hello, Go
In an obvious twist on the standard Hello World program, the next listing shows a sim-
ple application that prints Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya through a web server. 
package main
import (
     "fmt"
     "net/http"
) 
func hello(res http.ResponseWriter, req *http.Request) {
     fmt.Fprint(res, "Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya")
} 
func main() {
     http.HandleFunc("/", hello)
     http.ListenAndServe("localhost:4000", nil)
}
This simple application has three parts. It opens with a package declaration B. Where
libraries are declared with a short name describing what they do—for example, net or
crypto—applications have the package main. To write strings and operate as a web
server, the fmt and http packages are imported C. Importing these packages makes
them available in the code and in the compiled application.
 The application execution begins with the main function D that has no arguments
or returned values. Following the first line of main, the http.HandleFunc function is
called, telling the web server to execute the function hello when the path / is
matched. The hello function follows an interface for handlers. It receives an object
for the HTTP request and response. This is followed by a call to http.ListenAnd-
Serve, telling the web server to start up and listen on port 4000 of the domain local-
host.
 You can execute this application in two ways. In the next listing you use go run,
which compiles the application into a temp directory and executes it.
$ go run inigo.go
The temporary file is cleaned up when the application is done running. This is useful
in development of new versions of applications that are regularly tested.
 After the application has started, you can open a web browser and visit
http://localhost:4000 to view the response, as shown in figure 1.7.
Listing 1.16
Hello World web server: inigo.go
Listing 1.17
Running inigo.go
The main package is used for applications.
B
C Import 
needed 
packages.
Handler for 
an HTTP 
request
D Main 
application 
execution
