28
CHAPTER 2
A solid foundation
 From there, you’ll move onto servers and practical measures for starting and stop-
ping them. This may seem fairly straightforward, but addressing certain situations
early (for example, stopping a server before data has finished being saved) can cut
down on future problems.
 The chapter ends with path-matching techniques for servers. URL path matching is
common for websites and servers providing a Representational State Transfer (REST)
API. You’ll learn how and when to implement a few of the common methods for path
matching.
 By the end of this chapter, you’ll know the best practices for building command-
line clients and web servers that can serve as a foundation for building robust applica-
tions in Go.
2.1
Working with CLI applications, the Go way
Whether you’re using a console application (such as the source-control manage-
ment system Git or an application such as the MySQL database or the Apache web
server), command-line arguments and flags are part of the application user inter-
face. The Go standard library has built-in functionality for working with these, but it
comes with a twist.\
2.1.1
Command-line flags
The argument and flag handling in the Go standard library is based on Plan 9, which
has a different style from the systems based on GNU/Linux and Berkeley Software Dis-
tribution (BSD), such as Mac OS X and FreeBSD, that are in wide use today. For exam-
ple, on Linux and BSD systems, you can use the command ls -la to list all files in a
directory. The -la part of the command contains two flags, or options. The l flag tells
ls to use the long form listing, and the a flag causes the list to include hidden files.
The Go flag system won’t let you combine multiple flags, and instead sees this as one
flag named la.
 GNU-style commands (such as Linux’s ls) support long options (for example,
--color) that require two dashes in order to tell the program that the string color
isn’t five options, but one.
 A debate has arisen over whether the Go (or Plan 9) system offers any real advan-
tages over the style that dominates GNU, Linux, and BSD. Honestly, it boils down to a
matter of preference. GNU-style double-dashes feel clunky and error-prone to some.
Windowed applications
Designed as a systems language, Go doesn’t provide native support for building win-
dowed applications like the ones you find in Microsoft Windows or Mac OS X. The Go
community has dabbled in windowed development, but no clear direction has pre-
sented itself.
