32
CHAPTER 2
A solid foundation
The gnuflag package has almost the exact same API as the flag package, with one
notable difference. The Parse function has an additional argument. Otherwise, it’s a
drop-in replacement. The flag package will parse flags between the command name
and the first nonflag argument. For example, in listing 2.4, the -s and -n flags are
defined, and -n takes a value. When flag parses foo, it has reached a nonflag argu-
ment and stops parsing. That means -bar won’t be parsed to see if it’s a flag. The
gnuflag package has an option to continue parsing that would allow it to find flags
positioned where -bar is.
$ flag_based_cli –s –n Buttercup foo -bar
To switch from the flag package to the gnuflag package, you need to change only
two things in an application. First, instead of importing the flag package, import
launchpad.net/gnuflag. Then, add an additional first argument to the Parse func-
tion of either true or false. A value of true looks for flags anywhere in the com-
mand, and false behaves like the flag package. That’s it.
NOTE
lanuchpad.net uses the Bazaar version-control system. You need to
have this installed in order for Go to fetch the package. More details are avail-
able at http://bazaar.canonical.com/.
GO-FLAGS
Some community flag packages break from the conventions used in the flag package
within the standard library. One such package is github.com/jessevdk/go-flags. It
provides Linux- and BSD-style flags, providing even more features than those in
gnuflag, but uses an entirely different API and style. Features include the following:
Short flags, such as –f, and groups of short flags, such as -fg.
Multiple-letter or long flags, such as --flag.
Supporting option groups.
Generating well-formed help documentation.
Passing values for flags in multiple formats such as -p/usr/local, -p /usr
/local, and -p=/usr/local.
The same option can, optionally, appear more than once and be stored multi-
ple times on a slice.
To illustrate using this flag package, the following listing shows our Spanish-capable
Hello World console application rewritten using go-flags.
package main
import (
     "fmt"
Listing 2.4
flag package flag parsing
Listing 2.5
Using go-flags
