34
CHAPTER 2
A solid foundation
PROBLEM
Repeatedly, we find ourselves writing the same kinds of command-line programs. At
first, we think of them as disposable, but some of the tools we write end up growing far
beyond our initial expectations. Why keep writing the same boilerplate, only to be
faced later with refactoring the top level of the program? Are there tools that can pro-
vide a simple and repeatable pattern for rapidly building CLI programs?
SOLUTION
If you want something more opinionated and full of features for building a console
application, frameworks are available to handle command routing, help text, subcom-
mands, and shell autocompletion, in addition to flags. A popular framework used to
build console-based applications is cli (https://github.com/urfave/cli). This frame-
work has been used by projects such as the open source platform-as-a-service (PaaS)
project Cloud Foundry, the container management system Docker, and the continu-
ous integration and deployment system Drone.
DISCUSSION
Combining routing, flag and option parsing, and help documentation into a setup
that’s self-documenting, cli.go is one of the easiest ways to get started building a con-
sole application that works the way you’d expect it to.
A SIMPLE CONSOLE APPLICATION
Before looking at a console application with multiple commands, it’s useful to look at
a console application that executes a single action. You’ll use this foundation in an
expansion to multiple commands and subcommands. Figure 2.1 shows the structure
that a single-action application can use from the command line.
The following listing is a simple console application that displays Hello World! or says
hello to a name you choose.
$ hello_cli
Hello World!
$ hello_cli --name Inigo
Hello Inigo!
$ hello_cli –n Inigo
Hello Inigo!
$ hello_cli –help
NAME:
   hello_cli - Print hello world
Listing 2.6
Hello World CLI: hello_cli.go
Options available using
context Global* getters—
for example, GlobalString()
Optionally, one or more
arguments
$ app [options] arguments
Figure 2.1
Usage structure 
of a simple application
