36
CHAPTER 2
A solid foundation
The Flags property is a slice of cli.Flag containing the global flags C. Each flag has
a long name, short name, or both. Some flags, such as a cli.StringFlag, have a
Value property for the default value. cli.BoolFlag is an example of a flag without a
default value. Its presence sets the value to true, and its absence sets the value to
false. The Usage property is used for documentation that can be seen on the help
screen.
 cli.go provides the ability to have a default action when the application is run, to
have commands, and to have nested subcommands. We cover commands and subcom-
mands in the next section. Here you set the Action property that handles the default
action D. The value of Action is a function that accepts *cli.Context as an argument
and returns an error. This function contains the application code that should be run.
In this case, it obtains the name to say hello to by using c.GlobalString("name")
before printing hello to the name. If you want the returned error to cause the appli-
cation to exit with a nonzero exit code, return an error of cli.ExitError, which can
be created using the cli.NewExitError function.
 The final step is to run the application that was just set up. To do this, os.Args,
the arguments passed into the application, are passed into the Run method on the
application E.
TIP
Arguments are available in the Action function. In this case, a string slice
of arguments can be obtained by calling c.Args. For example, the first argu-
ment would be c.Args()[0].
COMMANDS AND SUBCOMMANDS
Applications built with cli.go often have commands and subcommands, as illustrated
in figure 2.2. Think of an application such as Git, in which you can run commands
such as git add, git commit, and git push.
Options available to 
all commands using 
context Global* 
getters—for example, 
GlobalString(”name”)
The command
to execute
$ app [global options] command [command options] arguments
Options available to 
this commands through 
context getters—for 
example, String(”name”)
Optionally, one or
more arguments
$ app [global options] command sub-command [command options] arguments
A command nested
below another command
Figure 2.2
Usage structure of an application with commands and subcommands
