52
CHAPTER 2
A solid foundation
Wildcard or named sections to a path, a common feature or feature request for
mapping systems, aren’t available.
Virtually every handler function needs to check for paths outside their bounds
and handle returning a Page Not Found message. For example, in listing 2.16
the handler /goodbye/ will receive paths prepended with /goodbye. Anything
returned by any path is handled here, so if you want to return a Page Not
Found message for the path /goodbye/foo/bar/baz, that would need to be
handled here.
Using multiple handlers is useful for simple cases. Because it doesn’t require packages
outside the http package, the external dependencies are kept to a minimum. If an
application is going to move beyond simple use cases, one of the following techniques
is likely to be a better fit.
TECHNIQUE 7
Handling complex paths with wildcards
The previous technique is straightforward, but as you saw, it’s decidedly inflexible
when it comes to path naming. You must list every single path that you expect to see.
For larger applications or for applications that follow the REST recommendations, you
need a more flexible solution.
PROBLEM
Instead of specifying exact paths for each callback, an application may need to sup-
port wildcards or other simple patterns.
SOLUTION
Go provides the path package with functionality to work with slash-separated paths.
This package isn’t directly designed to work with URL paths. Instead, it’s a generic
package intended to work with paths of all sorts. In fact, it works well when coupled
with an HTTP handler.
DISCUSSION
The following listing builds a router that uses path matching to map URL paths and
HTTP methods to a handler function.
package main
import (
     "fmt"
     "net/http"
     "path"
     "strings"
)
func main() {
     pr := newPathResolver()
     pr.Add("GET /hello", hello)
     pr.Add("* /goodbye/*", goodbye)
     http.ListenAndServe(":8080", pr)
}
Listing 2.17
Resolve URLs using path package: path_handlers.go
Imports the path package 
to handle URL matches
Gets an instance of a 
path-based router
B
Sets the HTTP server 
to use your router
D
C
Maps
functions
to paths
