60
CHAPTER 3
Concurrency in Go
have two or more tasks that run independently of each other, at about the same time,
but remain part of the same program.
 Popular programming languages such as Java and Python implement concurrency
by using threads. Go takes a different route. Following a model proposed by the
renowned computer scientist Tony Hoare, Go uses the concurrency model called Com-
municating Sequential Processes (CSP). This chapter covers the practical aspects of work-
ing with Go’s concurrency model, though we suggest reading a little about the theory
behind CSP and Go at golang.org.
 Two crucial concepts make Go’s concurrency model work:
Goroutines—A goroutine is a function that runs independently of the function
that started it. Sometimes Go developers explain a goroutine as a function that
runs as if it were on its own thread.
Channels—A channel is a pipeline for sending and receiving data. Think of it as
a socket that runs inside your program. Channels provide a way for one gorou-
tine to send structured data to another.
The techniques in this chapter use goroutines and channels. We won’t spend time on
the theory or underpinnings of the goroutine and channel systems, but will stick to
practical use of these two concepts.
 Concurrency in Go is cheap and easy. Therefore, you’ll frequently see it used in
libraries and tools. In fact, you’ll see it used frequently throughout this book. This
chapter introduces several concurrency topics, with emphasis on how Go’s model dif-
fers from that of other popular languages. It also focuses on best practices. Goroutines
and channels are one of the few places in the Go language where programmers can
introduce memory leaks. You can remedy this situation by following certain patterns,
which we introduce in this chapter. 
3.2
Working with goroutines
When it comes to syntax, a goroutine is any function that’s called after the special key-
word go. Almost any function could, in theory, be called as a goroutine, though there
are plenty of functions you probably wouldn’t want to call as goroutines. One of the
most frequent uses of goroutines is to run a function “in the background” while the
main part of your program goes on to do something else. As an example, let’s write a
short program that echoes back any text you type in, but only for 30 seconds, as shown
in the next listing. After that, it exits on its own.
package main
import (
     "fmt"
     "io"
     "os"
     "time"
Listing 3.1
Using a goroutine to run a task
