80
CHAPTER 3
Concurrency in Go
     for {
            select {
            case <-done:
                   println("Done")
                   close(ch)
                   return 
            default:
                   ch <- "hello"
                   time.Sleep(500 * time.Millisecond)
            }
     }
}
This example demonstrates a pattern that you’ll frequently observe in Go: using a
channel (often called done) to send a signal between goroutines. In this pattern, you
usually have one goroutine whose primary task is to receive messages, and another
whose job is to send messages. If the receiver hits a stopping condition, it must let the
sender know.
 In listing 3.11, the main function is the one that knows when to stop processing.
But it’s also the receiver. And as you saw before, the receiver shouldn’t ever close a
receiving channel. Instead, it sends a message on the done channel indicating that it’s
done with its work. Now, the send function knows when it receives a message on done
that it can (and should) close the channel and return. 
TECHNIQUE 15
Locking with buffered channels
Thus far, you’ve looked at channels that contain one value at a time and are created
like this: make(chan TYPE). This is called an unbuffered channel. If such a channel has
received a value, and is then sent another one before the channel can be read, the sec-
ond send operation will block. Moreover, the sender will also block until the channel
is read.
 Sometimes you’ll want to alter those blocking behaviors. And you can do so by cre-
ating buffered channels.
PROBLEM
In a particularly sensitive portion of code, you need to lock certain resources. Given
the frequent use of channels in your code, you’d like to do this with channels instead
of the sync package.
SOLUTION
Use a channel with a buffer size of 1, and share the channel among the goroutines
you want to synchronize.
DISCUSSION
Technique 12 introduced sync.Locker and sync.Mutex for locking sensitive areas of
code. The sync package is part of Go’s core, and is thus well tested and maintained.
But sometimes (especially in code that already uses channels), it’s desirable to imple-
ment locks with channels instead of the mutex. Often this is a stylistic preference: it’s
prudent to keep your code as uniform as possible.
When done has a message, 
shuts things down
