88
CHAPTER 4
Handling errors and panics
 We start with errors. After briefly revisiting the error-handling idioms for Go, we
dive into best practices. Errors can inform developers about something that has gone
wrong, and if you do it right, they can also assist in recovering and moving on. Go’s
way of working with errors differs from the techniques used in languages such as
Python, Java, and Ruby. But when you correctly use these techniques, you can write
robust code.
 The panic system in Go signals abnormal conditions that may threaten the integ-
rity of a program. Our experience has been that it’s used sporadically, and often reac-
tively, so our focus in this chapter is on making the most of the panic system, especially
when it comes to recovering from a panic. You’ll learn when to use panics, how (and
when) to recover from them, and how Go’s error and panic mechanisms differ from
other languages.
 Although Go is occasionally criticized for having a verbose error system, this chap-
ter illustrates why this system is conducive to building better software. By keeping
errors at the forefront of the developer’s mind, Go fights against our own cognitive
overconfidence bias. We may be disposed to believe that we write bug-free code. But
when we always keep error handling front and center, Go gets us used to the idea that
we have to code defensively, regardless of how good we think we are.
4.1
Error handling
One of Go’s idioms that often trips up newcomers is its error handling. Many popular
languages, including Python, Java, and Ruby, involve a theory of exception handling
that includes throwing and catching special exception objects. Others, like C, often use
the return value for error handling, and manage the mutated data through pointers.
 In lieu of adding exception handlers, the Go creators exploited Go’s ability to
return multiple values. The most commonly used Go technique for issuing errors is to
return the error as the last value in a return, as shown in the following listing.
package main
import (
     "errors"
     "strings"
)
func Concat(parts ...string) (string, error) {
     if len(parts) == 0 {
            return "", errors.New("No strings supplied")
     }
     return strings.Join(parts, " "), nil
}
Listing 4.1
Returning an error
Useful error and 
string utilities
Concat returns a string 
and an error.
Returns an error if 
nothing was passed in
Returns the new 
string and nil
