90
CHAPTER 4
Handling errors and panics
 Listing 4.2 shows this technique in action. First, you run Concat(args…), which
expands the args array as if you’d called Concat(arg[0], arg[1],…). You assign the
two return values to result and err. Then, still on that line, you check to see if err
isn’t nil. If err is set to something, you know an error occurred, so you print the
error message.
 It’s important to note that when you use this two-part if statement, the assign-
ments stay in scope for any else and else if statements, so result is still in scope
when you go to print it.
 This scoping illustrates why the two-clause if is a nice feature to have. It encour-
ages good memory-management practices while simultaneously preventing that pat-
tern that haunts our debugging nightmares: if a = b. 
 In listing 4.1, you saw the Concat function, and in listing 4.2 you’ve seen how it’s
used. But there’s a technique already present in this example that you should look
at explicitly.
TECHNIQUE 16
Minimize the nils
Nils are annoying for several reasons. They’re a frequent cause of bugs in the system,
and we as developers are often forced into a practice of checking values to protect
against nils.
 In some parts of Go, nils are used to indicate something specific. As you saw in the
preceding code, anytime an error return value is nil, you ought to construe that as
meaning, specifically, “There were no errors when this function executed.” But in
many other cases, the meaning of a nil is unclear. And in perhaps the most annoying
cases, nils are treated as placeholders anytime a developer doesn’t feel like returning a
value. That’s where this technique comes in.
PROBLEM
Returning nil results along with errors isn’t always the best practice. It puts more work
on your library’s users, provides little useful information, and makes recovery harder.
SOLUTION
When it makes sense, avail yourself of Go’s powerful multiple returns and send back
not just an error, but also a usable value.
DISCUSSION
This pattern is illustrated in the Concat function you saw previously. Let’s take a sec-
ond look, focusing on the line where an error is returned.
func Concat(parts ...string) (string, error) {
     if len(parts) == 0 {
            return "", errors.New("No strings supplied")
     }
    return strings.Join(parts, " "), nil
}
Listing 4.3
Returning useful data with an error
Returns both an 
empty string and 
an error
