95
The panic system
 
Running the preceding program results in the following output:
$ go run two_errors.go
Timeout. Retrying.
The request was rejected
The first request to SendRequest returns a time-out, and the second call returns a
rejection. If the second call had instead returned a time-out too, the program would
have continued running until a call to SendRequest returned either a success or a
rejection. It’s common to see patterns like this in network servers.
 Software developers working in a language such as Java or Python would be likely
to implement ErrTimeout and ErrRejected as classes, and then throw new instances
of each class. The try/catch pattern used by many languages is built for dealing with
error information encapsulated in error types. But as you’ve seen previously, Go
doesn’t provide a try/catch block. You could use type matching (especially with a
type switch statement) to provide the same functionality. But that’s not the Go way.
Instead, idiomatic Go uses a method that’s both more efficient and simpler: create
errors as package-scoped variables and reference those variables.
 You can see in the preceding code that handling error variables is as simple as
checking for equality. If the error is a time-out, you can retry sending the message
repeatedly. But when the error is a rejection, you stop processing. And as before,
returning a nil indicates that neither error occurs, and you handle that case accord-
ingly. With a pattern like this, the same error variables are used repeatedly. This is effi-
cient because errors are instantiated only once. It’s also conceptually simple. As long
as your error doesn’t have special properties (as you saw in technique 16), you can cre-
ate variables and then work with them as such.
 There’s one more facet of error handling that you should look at, and that’s the
Go panic.
4.2
The panic system
In addition to the preceding error handling, Go provides a second way of indicating
that something is wrong: the panic system. As the name indicates, a panic tells you
that something has gone seriously awry. It should be used sparingly and intelligently.
In this section, we explain how and when panics should be used and along the way tell
you about some of our own failures.
Not so random
One interesting detail of listing 4.7 is found in the randomizer. Because you initialize
the randomizer to a fixed value, it’ll always return the same sequence of “random”
numbers. This is great for us because you can illustrate a known sequence. But in
production applications, you shouldn’t use fixed integers to seed a source. One sim-
ple alternative is to use time.Now as a seed source.
