97
TECHNIQUE 19
Issuing panics
 Running this program provides this output:
go run zero_divider.go
Divide 1 by 0
Error: Can't divide by zero
Divide 2 by 0
panic: runtime error: integer divide by zero
[signal 0x8 code=0x7 addr=0x22d8 pc=0x22d8]
goroutine 1 [running]:
main.main()
   /Users/mbutcher/Code/go-in-practice/chapter4/zero_divider.go:18 +0x2d8
The first division using precheckDivide returns an error, and the second division
causes a panic because you never checked the divisor. Conceptually speaking, the rea-
sons for this are important:
When you checked the value before dividing, you never introduced the situa-
tion where the program was asked to do something it couldn’t.
When you divided, you caused the system to encounter a state that it couldn't
handle. This is when a panic should occur.
Practically speaking, errors are something that we as developers ought to expect to go
wrong. After all, they’re documented in the code. You can glance at the definition of
precheckDivide and see an error condition that you need to handle when you call
the function. Although an error might represent something outside the norm, we
can’t really say that they’re unexpected.
 Panics, on the other hand, are unexpected. They occur when a constraint or limi-
tation is unpredictably surpassed. When it comes to declaring a panic in your code,
the general rule of thumb is don’t panic unless there’s no clear way to handle the con-
dition within the present context. When possible, return errors instead.
4.2.2
Working with panics
Go developers have expectations about how to correctly panic, though those expectations
aren’t always clearly laid out. Before diving into the proper handling of panics, you’ll look
at a technique that all Go developers should know when it comes to issuing panics.
TECHNIQUE 19
Issuing panics
The definition of Go’s panic function can be expressed like this: panic(interface{}).
When you call panic, you can give it almost anything as an argument. You can, should
you so desire, call panic(nil), as shown in the following listing.
package main
func main() {
     panic(nil)
}
Listing 4.10
Panic with nil
Panic about nothing!
