99
TECHNIQUE 19
Issuing panics
With this method, it’s still easy to print the panic message with print formatters:
fmt.Printf("Error: %s", thePanic). And it’s just as easy to send the panic back
through the error system. That’s why it’s idiomatic to pass an error to a panic.
We’ve never seen particularly credible ways of using panics beyond the technique
we’ve described here. But our lack of creativity doesn’t mean that there might not be a
useful but non-idiomatic way of creatively passing non-error types to a panic.
 Now that you have a firm understanding of how to raise panics, you can turn to the
other half of the issue: recovery.
4.2.3
Recovering from panics
Any discussion of panics would be incomplete without a discussion of recovering from
panics. Panic recovery in Go depends on a feature of the language called deferred func-
tions. Go has the ability to guarantee the execution of a function at the moment its
parent function returns. This happens regardless of whether the reason for the parent
function’s return is a return statement, the end of the function block, or a panic. An
example in the next listing helps explain this.
package main
import "fmt"
func main() {
     defer goodbye()
     fmt.Println("Hello world.")
}
func goodbye() {
     fmt.Println("Goodbye")
}
Without the defer statement, this program would print Goodbye followed by Hello
world. But defer modifies the order of execution. It defers executing goodbye until
the rest of main has executed. Right as the main function completes, the deferred
goodbye function is run. The output of the program is this:
$ go run simple_defer.go
Hello world.
Goodbye
Listing 4.12
Simple defer
Thinking outside the panic box 
Although we’ve just claimed that the best thing to send a panic is an error, there’s a
reason that panics don’t require error types: the panic system is defined to be flexi-
ble. In some ways, this is analogous to the way that Java allows Throwables that
aren’t necessarily exceptions. A Go panic is one way to unwind the stack.
Defers execution of goodbye
Prints a line. This happens before goodbye.
