114
CHAPTER 5
Debugging and testing
5.1
Locating bugs
Sometimes you see a bug and know immediately what caused it. More often, you need
to spend a short amount of time in the code hunting for the problem. And every once
in a while, you hit those frustrating beasts that take hours or even days to track down.
 That third category of bug usually warrants the use of special tools or tactics to
track down the issue. This section covers some of those tools and tactics.
5.1.1
Wait, where is my debugger?
The go-to debugging tool of choice for many software developers is (surprise!) the
debugger. This magnificent tool executes your code and walks you through each step of
the way at whatever pace you desire.
 Before we dive headlong into the discussion, there’s one thing worth noting.
Despite the plethora of developer-oriented features in Go, it doesn’t yet have a fully
functional debugger. The core team has focused on other things, and the closest thing
to an official Go debugger is the GNU Debugger (GDB) plugin. You can use the vener-
able old GDB to do some debugging, but it’s not as reliable as many developers desire.
TIP
If you’d like to get GDB configured for debugging Go, the golang web-
site has a great introduction (http://golang.org/doc/gdb).
The Go community has also stepped in, and one project in particular looks good to
us. Delve (https://github.com/derekparker/delve) is a new Go debugger under
active development. As of this writing, the Delve installation process is tricky, espe-
cially on a Mac. But if you’re looking for a full-featured debugger that does an admira-
ble job of tracing goroutines, Delve is a sound bet. Our guess is that Delve will
supplant GDB as the choice debugger for the Go community.
 
Another 
alternative 
is 
the 
slightly 
less 
traditional 
Godebug 
tool
(https://github.com/mailgun/godebug). Although breakpoints have to be coded
into your source, Godebug instruments your code and allows you to get a deeper view
into what’s going on.
 With all of that said, maybe we’re a little bit old-school, but we haven’t found the
debugger situation to be much of a drawback. Go provides great libraries and tools
that have gotten us out of even our most sticky situations. With that caveat behind us,
let’s dive into some good code-quality practices in Go.
5.2
Logging
It has long been the accepted practice that long-running processes write status infor-
mation to a log file or subsystem. If you take a look at any popular programming lan-
guage, you’ll find libraries that provide common logging features. Go is no exception.
In fact, the Go designers decided to include logging in the core libraries.
 Typically, logs are intended to capture certain pieces of valuable information that
developers, system administrators, and other programs can use to learn about an
