118
CHAPTER 5
Debugging and testing
Although you can combine flags with a Boolean OR, some combinations are obviously
incompatible (namely, Llongfile and Lshortfile).
 Logging to files is usually straightforward, but sometimes logging to different
sources can introduce complexity. We’ll start with one of the more difficult cases—
working with network-based loggers—and then return to more straightforward cases
in which existing logging tools cover our needs.
TECHNIQUE 23
Logging to a network resource
The previous technique showed how to log to a generic io.Writer. The code we
wrote used a simple file as a destination for the log message. But these days, many of
the applications we write—especially servers—run in the cloud inside Docker images,
VMs, or other resources that have only ephemeral storage. Furthermore, we often run
servers in clusters, where it’s desirable to aggregate the logs of all servers onto one log-
ging service.
 Later in this chapter, you’ll look at using syslog as an external logger. But right
now you’ll look at another option: logging onto a network resource.
 Many popular logging services, including Logstash (http://logstash.net/) and
Heka (http://hekad.readthedocs.org/en/v0.9.2/), aggregate logs. These services typ-
ically expose a port to which you can connect and stream log messages. This style of
logging has been popularized in the influential Twelve-Factor App paradigm
(http://12factor.net/), whose eleventh factor is “Treat logs as event streams.” As sim-
ple as all that sounds, some bugaboos arise in sending log messages as streams.
PROBLEM
Streaming logs to a network service is error-prone, but you don’t want to lose log mes-
sages if you can avoid it.
SOLUTION
By using Go’s channels and some buffering, you can vastly improve reliability.
DISCUSSION
Before you can get going on the code, you need something that can simulate a log
server. Although existing services such as Logstash and Heka are available, you’ll avail
yourself of a simple UNIX tool called Netcat (nc). Netcat ships standard on most UNIX
and Linux flavors, including OS X. A Windows version is also available.
 You want to start a simple TCP server that accepts simple text messages and writes
them to the console. This is a simple Netcat command:
nc -lk 1902
Now you have a listener (-l) listening continuously (-k) on port 1902. (Some versions
of Netcat may also need the –p flag.) This little command will do a fine job of simulat-
ing a log server.
 Now you can get some code running by adapting listing 5.2 to write to a network
socket, as shown in the following listing.
