119
TECHNIQUE 23
Logging to a network resource
 
package main
import (
     "log"
     "net"
)
func main() {
     conn, err := net.Dial("tcp", "localhost:1902")
     if err != nil {
            panic("Failed to connect to localhost:1902")
     }
     defer conn.Close()
     f := log.Ldate | log.Lshortfile
     logger := log.New(conn, "example ", f)
     logger.Println("This is a regular message.")
     logger.Panicln("This is a panic.")
}
Surprisingly, little needs to be changed to write to a network connection instead of a
file. Go’s network library is convenient and simple. You create a new TCP connection
with net.Dial, connecting it to the port you opened with Netcat. It’s always recom-
mended to close a network connection in a defer block. If nothing else, when a panic
occurs (as it will in this demo code), the network buffer will be flushed on close, and
you’re less likely to lose critical log messages telling you why the code panicked.
 Again, you use the log package to log to the remote server. Using the logging
package here gives you a few advantages. The first is that you get a timestamp for free,
and when logging to a network server, it’s always a good idea to log the host time and
not rely solely on the log server’s timestamp. This helps you reconstruct a record of
events even if the log messages are delayed on their way to the log server. Second, as
you can see by comparing listings 5.2 and 5.3, when you stick with the logging system,
it’s trivially easy to swap out the underlying log storage mechanism. This is great for
testing and running developer environments.
 Did you notice that we also changed log.Fatalln to a log.Panicln in this exam-
ple? There’s a simple reason for this; the log.Fatal* functions have an unfortunate
side effect: the deferred function isn’t called. Why not? Because log.Fatal* calls
os.Exit, which immediately terminates the program without unwinding the function
stack. We covered this topic in the preceding chapter. Because the deferred function
is skipped, your network connection is never properly flushed and closed. Panics, on
the other hand, are easier to capture. In reality, production code for anything but sim-
ple command-line clients should avoid using fatal errors. And as you saw in the previ-
ous chapter, there are specific cases in which you should call a panic.
 With all of this in mind, when you execute the preceding code, your nc instance
should receive some log messages:
Listing 5.3
Network log client
Connects to 
the log server
Makes sure you clean 
up by closing the 
connection, even on 
panic
Sends log messages to 
the network connection
Logs a message and then 
panics–don’t use Fatalln here.
