122
CHAPTER 5
Debugging and testing
The changes to the code are minimal. Instead of using the regular net.Dial, this
code has net.DialTimeout, which adds a nicety to the regular net.Dial call: it speci-
fies how long it’ll wait for the connection before giving up. You set this to 30 seconds.
With TCP, the timeout includes time to send the message and receive the ACK. But
with UDP, you set the timeout largely for just how long it takes your app to resolve the
address and send the message. Setting a timeout gives you a little bit of a safety net
when the network isn’t functioning as expected.
 To run the preceding code, you also need to restart your nc server as a UDP server:
nc -luk 1902.
 Using UDP for logging has distinct advantages:
The app is resistant to back pressure and log server outages. If the log server
hiccups, it may lose some UDP packets, but the client won’t be impacted.
Sending logs is faster even without back pressure.
The code is simple.
But this route also has some major disadvantages. Depending on your needs, these
drawbacks may indicate that this is the wrong route for you:
Log messages can get lost easily. UDP doesn’t equip you to know whether a mes-
sage was received correctly.
Log messages can be received out of order. Large log messages may be pack-
etized and then get jumbled in transition. Adding a timestamp to the message
(as you’ve done) can help with this, but not totally resolve it.
Sending the remote server lots of UDP messages may turn out to be more likely
to overwhelm the remote server, because it can’t manage its connections and
slow down the data intake. Although your app may be immune to back pres-
sure, your log server may be worse off.
Based on our own experiences, UDP-based logging definitely has a time and a place. It’s
quick and efficient. If you can predict with relative accuracy how much work your log
server needs to do, this method provides a useful and simple path to network logging.
 But a few cases might definitively tilt your decision away from UDP logging. You
may not want to use UDP logging when you can’t accurately predict how much logging
data will go from the app server to the log server, or when losing occasional log mes-
sages is unacceptable.
 TCP logging is prone to back pressure, but UDP logging won’t guarantee data accu-
racy. It’s a conundrum that we’re used to dealing with from image encoding: do you
want precise images at the expense of large file sizes (GIF, PNG), or compact images
that lose some data (JPEG)? With logging, you may need to make a similar choice. This
isn’t to say that nothing can be done to make things better. For example, back-
pressure stress can be delayed by creating a large buffer for logs to be temporarily
stored in case of network saturation. 
