130
CHAPTER 5
Debugging and testing
This example points out the earmarks of a typical Go test. Go doesn’t include a lot of
assertion tools like other testing frameworks (though libraries are available for this).
But the testing.T object supplies functions for reporting unexpected conditions.
The most frequently used functions on testing.T are as follows:

T.Error(args …interface{}) or T.Errorf(msg string, args interface{})—
These log a message and then mark the test as failed. The second version allows
formatting strings, as shown in listing 5.10.

T.Fatal(args …interface{}) or T.Fatalf(msg string, args interface{})—
These log a message, mark the test as failed, and then stop the testing. You
should do this whenever one failed test indicates that no others will pass.
Various other functions are available as well, designed to make it possible to skip
tests, to fail immediately, and so on. With this in mind, let’s look at a few techniques
for testing.
TECHNIQUE 27
Using interfaces for mocking or stubbing
Go’s type system focuses on composition rather than inheritance. Instead of building
large trees of object types, the Go developer creates interfaces that describe desired
behavior. Anything that fulfills the interface type can be considered to be of that type.
For example, one of the most commonly used interfaces is called io.Writer. It looks
like the following listing.
type Writer interface {
        Write(p []byte) (n int, err error)
} 
The io.Writer interface applies to anything that can write a sequence of bytes
according to the preceding signature. The os.File type and the net.Conn type both
implement io.Writer, as do many other types. One of the best parts of Go’s type sys-
tem is that the implementing type doesn’t need to explicitly declare which interfaces
it satisfies (though documenting these isn’t a bad idea). You may even choose to
declare an interface that matches some properties of an existing type, and thereby
create a useful abstraction. Nowhere is this more useful than when testing.
PROBLEM
You’re writing code that depends on types defined in external libraries, and you want
to write test code that can verify that those libraries are correctly used.
SOLUTION
Create interfaces to describe the types you need to test. Use those interfaces in your
code, and then write stub or mock implementations for your tests.
Listing 5.11
The stringer interface
