150
CHAPTER 6
HTML and email template patterns
the HTML template system, it would be escaped and &lt;script&gt;alert(&#39
;busted pwned&#39;)&lt;/script&gt; would be rendered in the template. This is
safe to display to users and avoids a potential cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability.
 When you want a variable to be rendered as is, without being escaped, you can use
the HTML type in the html/template package. Technique 35 provides an example that
uses the HTML type to inject data into a template and avoid escaping.
 The following four techniques look at ways to extend the built-in template system,
allowing you to use common template patterns.
6.1.2
Adding functionality inside templates
Templates in Go have functions that can and will be called from within them. As you
just saw, the intelligence in the HTML templates adds escaping functions in the right
place for you. These functions are where complex functionality is handled in the tem-
plates. Out of the box, the template packages provide fewer than 20 functions, and
several are to support this intelligence.
 For example, consider one of the built-in functions, whose implementation is pro-
vided by fmt.Sprintf, is printf. The following code shows its use inside a template:
{{"output" | printf "%q"}}
The snippet takes the string output and passes it into printf by using the format
string %q. The output is the quoted string output.
TECHNIQUE 32
Extending templates with functions
Although templates provide quite a few features, often you need to extend them with
your own functionality. The need to add features isn’t uncommon or uncalled for. For
example, we’ve often seen the need to display a date and time in an easy-to-read for-
mat. This common request could easily be implemented as part of the template sys-
tem. This is just one common example, and template systems can be extended in
many cases.
PROBLEM
The built-in functions in the templates don’t provide all the functionality you need.
SOLUTION
Just as Go makes functions available in templates (such as fmt.Sprintf being avail-
able in templates as printf), make your own functions available.
DISCUSSION
You can display information in templates in various ways. Although the way data is
generated should be kept in the application logic, the way it’s formatted and displayed
should cleanly happen in a template. Presenting date and time information is a good
example. In an application, the time information should be stored in a type, such as
time.Time. When displayed to users, it could be displayed in a myriad of ways.
 Go actions, the data and commands enclosed in double curly brackets, can have
commands that act on the data. These commands can be chained into pipelines
