152
CHAPTER 6
HTML and email template patterns
Rather than referencing an external file, this HTML template is stored as a string in a
variable. Inside the template, the data in Date is passed through the template function
dateFormat with a specified format string before becoming part of the output. It’s
important to know that the piping mechanism passes the output from one item in the
pipeline into the next item in the pipeline as the last argument.
 Because dateFormat isn’t one of the core template functions, it needs to be made
available to the template. Making custom functions available in templates requires two
steps. First, a map needs to be created in which names to be used inside the template
are mapped to functions in Go. Here the function dateFormat is mapped to the name
dateFormat. Although the same name is used for both the Go function and name avail-
able inside the template, that doesn’t have to be the case. They can be different names.
 When a new template.Template instance is created, the function map (here,
named funcMap) needs to be passed into Funcs to make the new function mapping
available to templates. After this happens, templates can use the functions. Before
using the template, the final step is to parse the template into template.Template.
 From here, the template instance is used normally. The data structure is defined,
in this case, by an anonymous struct, with the data to pass in as a key-value mapping.
The data structure is passed into Execute along with the io.Writer to output the ren-
dered template. In this case, when dateFormat is encountered in the template, the
format of Jan 2, 2006 is passed in, followed by the time.Time instance. The instance
of time.Time is converted to a string following this format.
NOTE
The date and time used in format strings needs to be specific and is
detailed in the package documentation at http://golang.org/pkg/time
/#Time.Format.
If you’re going to apply the same function set to numerous templates, you can use a
Go function to create your templates and add your template functions each time:
func parseTemplateString(name, tpl string) *template.Template {
     t:= template.New(name)
     t.Funcs(funcMap)
     t = template.Must(t.Parse(tpl))
     return t
}
This function could be repeatedly used to create a new template object from a tem-
plate string with your custom template functions included. In listing 6.3, this could be
used inside the serveTemplate function instead of parsing the template and adding
the template functions there. Using a Go function to configure your templates for you
could be done with files as well.
6.1.3
Limiting template parsing
Parsing templates that were originally in text into type instances is a bit of work for a
Go application. Parsing a template turns a string of characters into an object model
with a variety of nodes and node types that Go knows how to use. The parser in the
