162
CHAPTER 6
HTML and email template patterns
PROBLEM
You want to render an object to HTML and pass the rendered object to a higher-level
template, where it can be part of the output.
SOLUTION
Use templates to render objects as HTML. Store the HTML in a variable and pass the
HTML to higher-level templates wrapped in template.HTML, marking it as safe HTML
that doesn’t need to be escaped. 
DISCUSSION
There are a couple reasons to have multiple rendering steps. First, if part of the page
is expensive to generate a dataset for or render to HTML, it’s worth not repeating
when each page is generated. 
 For example, imagine you have a directory listing for a user. The listing contains
information about a user and their activity that can be viewed by many other users.
Obtaining the dataset to render would require multiple data source lookups. If that
were cached, you could skip loading this information each time the page is viewed.
 Caching this dataset would still require the dataset being rendered on each page
load, and you’d need to store a complicated dataset somewhere. Rendering the data
would mean the template package handles rendering in the right format and making
sure everything is properly escaped. If the cache were instead populated with a ren-
dered HTML snippet to reuse each time, more work on each page generation would
be skipped due to better caching.
 In a second case, say you have applications with complicated logic and have many
pages to render. You could have many templates containing a lot of duplicate markup.
If each template were instead scoped to render one thing—whether it be the main
content, a piece of the sidebar, or the page wrapper—the templates could be easier to
manage.
 The following listing shows how to render an object from a template, store the
HTML, and later inject it into another template. 
<blockquote>
&ldquo;{{.Quote}}&rdquo;
&mdash; {{.Person}}
</blockquote>
This template, quote.html, is associated with a Quote object. The template is used to
render the Quote object as HTML and has Quote object fields to render. You’ll notice
there are no other elements for a complete page here. Instead those are part of
index.html, shown in the following listing.
Listing 6.13
A Quote object template: quote.html
Properties on the Quote object 
to be written to output
