192
CHAPTER 7
Serving and receiving assets and forms
This code opens with an http handler function. When it receives a GET HTTP request,
it responds with an HTML form. When that form is posted, it processes the form.
 Because the handler function parses the form, instead of relying on Parse-
MultipartForm, you have a few elements to set up before working with the form itself.
For access to the data on the form as it comes in, you’ll need access to a reader. The
MultipartReader method on the Request object returns *mime.Reader, which you
can use to iterate over the multipart body of the request. This reader consumes input
as needed. For the form fields not being handled as files, you need a place to store the
values. Here a map is created to store the values.
 After the setup is complete, the handler iterates over the parts of the multipart
message. The loop starts by attempting to retrieve the next part of the multipart mes-
sage. If there are no more parts, an io.EOF error is returned and the function breaks
out of the parsing loop. EOF stands for the end of the file.
 The parsing loop can now start handling the parts of the message. It first checks
for the name of the form field by using the FormName method and continues the loop
if there’s no name. Files will have a filename in addition to the name of the field. This
can be retrieved by using the FileName method. The existence of a filename is a way
to distinguish between file and text-field handling.
 When there’s no filename, the handler copies the value of the content of the field
into a buffer and decrements a size counter that starts at 10 megabytes. If the size
counter runs down to 0, the parser returns and provides an error. This is put in place
as a protection against text-field content being too large and consuming too much
memory. 10 MB is quite large and is the default value inside ParseMultipartForm as
well. If no errors occur, the content of the text form field is stored in the values map
previously created and the parsing loop continues on the next part.
 If the parsing loop has reached this point, the form field is a file. A file on the
operating system is created to store the contents of the file. At this point, an alterna-
tive location such as cloud storage could be used to write the file to. Instead of creat-
ing a file on the operating system, a connection to another storage system could be
opened. After the destination is opened, the handler loops over the content of the
part, iteratively reading it as it comes in. Until a notification of the end of the part,
designated with an io.EOF error, comes in, the bytes are written to the destination as
they arrive. For example, if you use this to upload a large file, you can watch the data
slowly being written to the output file while the upload is happening. After the loop
completes, the files are all available on disk and the text fields are available on the
values map.
