195
Using REST APIs
 Many APIs pass information as JSON. After a quick look at how JSON parsing works
in Go, you’ll learn about handling JSON structures when you don’t know the structure
of the data ahead of time. This is useful when you need to work with poorly defined or
undefined JSON data.
 Functionality within applications changes over time, and this often causes APIs to
change. When APIs change, they need to be versioned. How can APIs be versioned?
You’ll learn a couple of methods for versioning REST APIs.
 From this chapter, you’ll learn how to move from the basics of API handling into
more robust functionality.
8.1
Using REST APIs
The Go standard library includes an HTTP client that’s pretty straightforward for most
common use cases. After you move beyond the common use cases, you’ll see rarer but
still regularly needed cases without a clear solution. Before we touch on a couple of
those, let’s look at how the HTTP client works.
8.1.1
Using the HTTP client
The HTTP client is found in the net/http library within the standard library. It has
helper functions to perform GET, HEAD, and POST requests, can perform virtually any
HTTP request, and can be heavily customized.
 The helper functions are http.Get, http.Head, http.Post, and http.PostForm.
With the exception of http.PostForm, each function is for the HTTP verb its name
suggests. For example, http.PostForm handles POST requests when the data being
posted should be posted as a form. To illustrate how these functions work, the follow-
ing listing shows a simple use of http.Get.
package main
import (
     "fmt"
     "io/ioutil"
     "net/http"
)
func main() {
     res, _ := 
➥http.Get("http://goinpracticebook.com")
     b, _ := ioutil.ReadAll(res.Body)
     res.Body.Close()
     fmt.Printf("%s", b)
}
The helper functions are all backed by the default HTTP client that’s accessible and
can perform any HTTP request. For example, the following listing shows how to use
the default client to make a DELETE request.
Listing 8.1
A simple HTTP get
Performs a 
GET request
Reads the body of the response and closes 
the Body reader when done reading it
Prints the body to Standard Output
