201
TECHNIQUE 51
Custom HTTP error passing
func main() {
     http.HandleFunc("/", displayError)
     http.ListenAndServe(":8080", nil)
}
This simple server always returns the error message An Error Occurred. Along with
the custom message, served with a type of text/plain, the HTTP status message is set
to 403, correlating to forbidden access.
 The http package in the standard library has constants for the various status codes.
You can read more about the codes at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_
status_codes.
 A client can read the codes the server responds with to learn about what happened
with the request. In listing 8.5, when the res.StatusCode is checked, the client is
looking for a status in the 200 range, which signifies a successful request. The follow-
ing snippet shows a simple example of printing the status:
res, _ := http.Get("http://example.com")
fmt.Println(res.Status)
fmt.Println(res.StatusCode)
The res.Status is a text message for the status. Example responses look like 200 OK
and 404 Not Found. If you’re looking for the error code as a number, res.Status-
Code is the status code as an int.
 Both the response code and the error message are useful for clients. With them,
you can display error messages and automatically handle situations.
8.2.1
Generating custom errors
A plain text error string and an HTTP status code representing an error are often
insufficient. For example, if you’re displaying web pages, you’ll likely want your error
pages to be styled like your application or site. Or if you’re building an API server that
responds with JSON, you’ll likely want error responses to be in JSON as well.
 The first part of working with custom error responses is for the server to generate
them.
TECHNIQUE 51
Custom HTTP error passing
You don’t have much room for customization when using the Error function within
the http package. The response type is hardcoded as plain text, and the X-Content-
Type-Options header is set to nosniff. This header tells some tools, such as Microsoft
Internet Explorer and Google Chrome, to not attempt to detect a content type other
than what was set. This leaves little opportunity to provide a custom error, aside from
the content of the plain text string.
PROBLEM
How can you provide a custom response body and content type when there’s an error?
Sets up all paths to serve the 
HTTP handler displayError
