219
What is cloud computing?
INFRASTRUCTURE AS A SERVICE
Accessing infrastructure as a service (IaaS) is different from previous forms of working
with virtual machines. Sure, services have been providing virtual machines and colo-
cated servers for years. When IaaS came into being, the change was the way those serv-
ers were used and accessed.
 Prior to IaaS, you’d typically get a server and then continue to use that server for
months or years. IaaS turned that on its head. Under an IaaS setup, virtual servers are
created and destroyed as needed. When you need a server, it’s created. As soon as you
no longer need it, you return it to the pool of available resources. For example, if you
need to test an idea, you might create many servers, test the idea, and then immedi-
ately get rid of the servers.
 Creating and working with IaaS resources happens via a programmable API. This is
typically a REST API that can be used by command-line tools and applications to man-
age the resources.
 IaaS is about more than servers. Storage, networking, and other forms of infra-
structure are accessible and configurable in the same way. As the name suggests, the
infrastructure is the configurable part. The operating system, runtime environment,
application, and data are all managed by cloud consumers and their management
software.
 Examples of an IaaS include services provided by Amazon Web Services, Microsoft
Azure, and Google Cloud.
PLATFORM AS A SERVICE
Platform as a service (PaaS) differs from IaaS in some important ways. One of the sim-
plest is in how you work with it. To deploy an application to a platform, you use an API
to deploy your application code and supporting metadata, such as the language the
application was written in. The platform takes this information and then builds and
runs the application.
 In this model, the platform manages the operating system and runtime. You don’t
need to start virtual machines, choose their resource sizes, choose an operating sys-
tem, or install system software. Handling those tasks is left up to the platform to man-
age. You gain back the time typically spent managing systems so you can focus on
other tasks such as working on your application.
 To scale applications, instances of the application are created and run in parallel.
In this way, applications are scaled horizontally. A PaaS may be able to do some scaling
automatically, or you can use an API to choose the number of instances yourself.
 Heroku, Cloud Foundry, and Deis are three of the most widely known examples of
a PaaS.
SOFTWARE AS A SERVICE
Say your application needs a database to store data in. You could create a cluster of
virtual machines using IaaS, install the database software and configure it, monitor
the database to make sure everything works properly, and continually update the sys-
tem software for security. Or you could consume a database as a service and leave the
