229
TECHNIQUE 59
Detecting dependencies
TECHNIQUE 59
Detecting dependencies
In addition to communicating with the kernel or base operating system, Go applica-
tions can call other applications on the system. This is typically accomplished with the
os/exec package from the standard library. But what happens if the application being
called isn’t installed? Assuming that a dependency is present can lead to unexpected
behavior, and a failure to detect any issues in a reportable way makes detecting the
problem in your application more difficult.
PROBLEM
How can you ensure that it’s okay to execute an application before calling it?
SOLUTION
Prior to calling a dependent application for the first time, detect whether the applica-
tion is installed and available for you to use. If the application isn’t present, log an
error to help with troubleshooting.
DISCUSSION
We’ve already talked about how Go applications can run on a variety of operating sys-
tems. For example, if an application is compiled for Linux, it could be running on a
variety of distributions with different applications installed. If your application relies
on another application, it may or may not be installed. This becomes more compli-
cated with the number of distributions available and used in the cloud. Some special-
ized Linux distributions for the cloud are small, with limited or virtually no commands
installed.
 Anytime a cloud application relies on another application being installed, it
should validate that dependency and log the absence of the missing component. This
is relatively straightforward to do with the os/exec package. The following listing pro-
vides a function to perform detection.
func checkDep(name string) error {
     if _, err := exec.LookPath(name); err != nil {
            es := "Could not find '%s' in PATH: %s"
            return fmt.Errorf(es, name, err)
     }
     return nil
}
This function can be used within the flow of an application to check whether a depen-
dency exists. The following snippet shows an example of checking and acting on an
error:
Listing 9.7
Function to check whether the application is available
Checks whether the passed-in dependency is in one of
the PATHs. When not present, an error is generated.
Returns an error when the 
dependency isn’t found
Returning nil if 
there was no error
