230
CHAPTER 9
Using the cloud
err := checkDep("fortune")
if err != nil {
     log.Fatalln(err)
}
fmt.Println("Time to get your fortunte")
In this example, the error is logged when a dependency isn’t installed. Logging isn’t
always the action to take. There may be a fallback method to retrieve the missing
dependency or an alternative dependency to use. Sometimes a missing dependency
may be fatal to an application, and other times it can skip an action when a depen-
dency isn’t installed. When you know something is missing, you can handle the situa-
tion appropriately.
9.3.2
 Building for the cloud
There’s no one hardware architecture or operating system for the cloud. You may
write an application for the AMD64 architecture running on Windows and later find
you need to run it on ARM8 and a Linux distribution. Building for the cloud requires
designing to support multiple environments, which is easier handled up front in
development and is something the standard library can help you with.
TECHNIQUE 60
Cross-compiling
In addition to the variety of environments in cloud computing, it’s not unusual to
develop a Go application on Microsoft Windows or Apple’s OS X and want to operate
it on a Linux distribution in production, or to distribute an application via the cloud
with versions for Windows, OS X, and Linux. In a variety of situations, an application is
developed in one operating system but needs to run in a different one.  
PROBLEM
How can you compile for architectures and operating systems other than the one
you’re currently on?
SOLUTION
The go toolchain provides the ability to cross-compile to other architectures and oper-
ating systems. In addition to the go toolchain, gox allows you to cross-compile multiple
binaries in parallel. You also can use packages, such as filepath, to handle differ-
ences between operating systems instead of hardcoding values, such as the POSIX path
separator /.
DISCUSSION
As of Go 1.5, the compiler installed with the go toolchain can cross-compile out of the
box. This is done by setting the GOARCH and GOOS environment variables to specify the
architecture and operating system. GOARCH specifies the hardware architecture such as
amd64, 386, or arm, whereas GOOS specifies the operating system such as windows,
linux, darwin, or freebsd.
 The following example provides a quick illustration:
$ GOOS=windows GOARCH=386 go build
