232
CHAPTER 9
Using the cloud
 Besides compiling for different environments, differences between operating systems
need to be handled within an application. Go has two useful parts to help with that.
 First, packages provide a single interface that handles differences behind the
scenes. For example, one of the most well-known is the difference between path and
path list separators. On Linux and other POSIX-based systems, these are / and :,
respectively. On Windows, they’re \ and ;. Instead of assuming these, use the
path/filepath package to make sure any paths are handled safely. This package pro-
vides features such as the following:

filepath.Separator and filepath.ListSeparator—Represent the appropri-
ate path and list separator values on any operating system the application is
compiled to. You can use these when you need direct access to the separators.

filepath.ToSlash—Take a string representing a path and convert the separa-
tors to the correct value.

filepath.Split and filepath.SplitList—Split a path into its parts or split a
list of paths into individual paths. Again, the correct separators will be used.

filepath.Join—Join a list of parts into a path, using the correct separator for
the operating system.
The go toolchain also has build tags that allow code files to be filtered, based on
details such as operating system and architecture when being compiled. A build tag is
at the start of a file and looks like this:
// +build !windows
This special comment tells the compiler to skip this file on Windows. Build tags can
have multiple values. The following example skips building a file on Linux or OS X
(darwin):
// +build !linux,!darwin
These values are linked to GOOS and GOARCH options.
 Go also provides the ability to name files in such a way that they’re picked up for
the different environments. For example, foo_windows.go would be compiled and
used for a Windows build, and foo_386.go would be used when compiling for the 386
(sometimes called x86) hardware architecture.
 These features enable applications to be written for multiple platforms while work-
ing around their differences and tapping into what makes them unique.
9.3.3
Performing runtime monitoring
Monitoring is an important part of operating applications. It’s typical to monitor run-
ning systems to find issues, to detect when the load has reached levels that require scal-
ing up or down, or to understand what’s going on within an application to speed it up.
 The easiest way to monitor an application is to write issues and other details to a
log. The log subsystem can write to disk and another application can read it or the log
subsystem can push it out to a monitoring application.
