233
TECHNIQUE 61
Monitoring the Go runtime
TECHNIQUE 61
Monitoring the Go runtime
Go applications include more than application code or code from libraries. The Go
runtime sits in the background, handling the concurrency, garbage collection,
threads, and other aspects of the application.
 The runtime has access to a wealth of information. That includes the number of
processors seen by the application, current number of goroutines, details on memory
allocation and usage, details on garbage collection, and more. This information can
be useful for identifying problems within the application or for triggering events such
as horizontal scaling.
PROBLEM
How can your application log or otherwise monitor the Go runtime? 
SOLUTION
The runtime and runtime/debug packages provide access to the information within
the runtime. Retrieve information from the runtime by using these packages and
write it to the logs or other monitoring service at regular intervals.
DISCUSSION
Imagine that an imported library update includes a serious bug that causes the gorou-
tines it created to stop going away. The goroutines slowly accumulate so that millions
of them are being handled by the runtime when it should have been hundreds. (We,
the authors, don’t need to imagine this situation, because we’ve encountered it.)
Monitoring the runtime enables you to see when something like this happens.
 When an application starts up, it can start a goroutine to monitor the runtime and
write details to a log. Running in a goroutine allows you to run the monitoring and
write to the logs concurrently, alongside the rest of the application, as the following
listing shows. 
func monitorRuntime() {
     log.Println("Number of CPUs:", runtime.NumCPU())
     m := &runtime.MemStats{}
     for {
            r := runtime.NumGoroutine()
            log.Println("Number of goroutines", r)
            runtime.ReadMemStats(m)
            log.Println("Allocated memory", m.Alloc)
            time.Sleep(10 * time.Second)
     }
}
func main() {
     go monitorRuntime()
Listing 9.9
Monitor an application’s runtime
A function to monitor the runtime
When monitoring starts, 
reports the number of 
processors available
Loops 
continuously, 
pausing 
for 10
seconds 
between 
each iteration
Logs the number 
of goroutines 
and amount of 
allocated 
memory
When the application starts, begins monitoring 
the application 
