238
CHAPTER 10
Communication between cloud services
TECHNIQUE 62
Reusing connections
It’s not unusual for each HTTP request to be made over its own connection. Negotiat-
ing each connection takes time, including the time to negotiate TLS for secure com-
munications. Next, TCP slow-start ramps up as the message is communicated. Slow-start
is a congestion-control strategy designed to prevent network congestion. As a slow-
start ramps up, a single message may take multiple round-trips between the client and
server to communicate.
PROBLEM
When each request is over its own connection, a significant amount of time is lost to
network communication. How can an application avoid as much of this lost time as
possible?
SOLUTION
Reuse connections. Multiple HTTP requests can be made over a single connection.
That connection needs to be negotiated and ramped up for slow-start only once. After
passing the first message, others happen more quickly.
DISCUSSION
Whether your application is using HTTP/2 (first available in Go 1.6) or HTTP/1 and
HTTP/1.1 for your communications, you can reuse connections. Go tries to reuse con-
nections out of the box, and it’s the patterns in an application’s code that can cause
this to not happen.
 When connections are reused, as shown in figure 10.2, the time spent opening and
closing connections is reduced. Because TCP slow-start has already happened, the
time to communicate future messages is faster as well. This is why the second, third,
and fourth messages take less time when the connection is reused.
 The server included in the net/http package provides HTTP keep-alive support.
Most systems support TCP keep-alive needed to reuse connections out of the box. As
of Go 1.6, the net/http package includes transparent support for HTTP/2, which has
other communication advantages that can make communication even faster.
Open
Open
Open
Open
Open
Close
Close
Close
Close
Close
Each request using a different connection
All requests sharing the same connection
Time
Server
Server
Client
Client
Figure 10.2
Messages being passed with and without connection reuse
