259
TECHNIQUE 67
Discovering whether a value implements an interface
fmt package defines an interface called Stringer that describes a thing capable of
representing itself as a string:
type Stringer interface {
        String() string 
}
Any type that provides a String() method that takes no arguments and returns a
string is ipso facto a fmt.Stringer.
PROBLEM
Given a particular type, you want to find out whether that type implements a defined
interface.
SOLUTION
There are two ways to accomplish this. One is with a type assertion, and the other uses
the reflect package. Use the one that best meets your needs.
DISCUSSION
Go’s view of interfaces differs from that of object-oriented languages like Java. In Go, a
thing isn’t declared to fulfill an interface. Instead, an interface is a description against
which a type can be compared. And interfaces are themselves types. That is why when
you write types in Go, you don’t declare which interfaces they satisfy. In fact, as you
saw in chapter 4, it’s common to write interfaces to match existing code.
 One easy way to conceptualize this is by considering how we, as humans, often gen-
eralize and categorize. If I were to ask you, “What do a swan, a snow drift, and a cloud
have in common?” you would answer, “All are white.” This doesn’t mean that the three
things have a common ancestor (the object-oriented approach). Instead, it means
that all three share a commonality: whiteness. This is the way types work in Go. They
express commonality, not inheritance.
 Go makes it easy to determine whether a given interface matches another inter-
face type. Determining the answer to this question can be done at the same time as
converting that type, as shown in the next listing.
package main
import (
     "bytes"
     "fmt"
)
func main() {
     b := bytes.NewBuffer([]byte("Hello"))
     if isStringer(b) {
            fmt.Printf("%T is a stringer\n", b)
     }
     i := 123
     if isStringer(i) {
Listing 11.4
Checking and converting a type
Tests whether a 
*bytes.Buffer is a 
fmt.Stringer. It is.
Tests whether an 
integer is a 
fmt.Stringer. It’s not.
