268
CHAPTER 11
Reflection and code generation
information about the field (though XML annotations are more sophisticated than
JSON annotations).
 This format isn’t enshrined in the definition of a struct annotation, though. It’s
just a convention that has proven useful and thus enjoys widespread adoption. Go’s
reflection package even makes it easy to work with tags, as you’ll see shortly.
TECHNIQUE 69
Processing tags on a struct
Annotations can be useful in a wide variety of situations. The preceding examples
show how they can be used by encoders. Annotations can just as readily be used to
describe how database field types map to structs, or how to format data for display.
We’ve even seen cases in which annotations were used to tell Go to pass struct values
through other filtering functions.
 And because the annotation format is undefined, to build your annotations, you
need only decide on a format and then write an implementation.
PROBLEM
You want to create your own annotations and then programmatically access the anno-
tation data of a struct at runtime.
SOLUTION
Define your annotation format (preferably using the tag-like syntax described previ-
ously). Then use the reflect package to write a tool that extracts the annotation
information from a struct.
DISCUSSION
Say you want to write an encoder for a simple file syntax for name-value pairs. This for-
mat is similar to the old INI format. An example of this file format looks like this:
total=247
running=2
sleeping=245
threads=1189
load=70.87
Here, the names are on the left side of the equals sign, and the values are on the right.
Now imagine that you want to create a struct to represent this data. It looks like the
following listing.
Annotations for validation
One of the most interesting uses for annotations that we’ve seen is for validating
field data on a struct. By adding regular expressions in tags (`validate:"^[a-z]+$
"`), and then writing code to run those regular expressions over struct data, you can
write validation code easily and concisely. An example can be found in the Deis
Router project at https://github.com/deis/router.
