274
CHAPTER 11
Reflection and code generation
                           }
                           dest = reflect.ValueOf(bval)
                   }
                   v.Field(i).Set(dest)
            }
     }
}
The setField() function takes the raw name-value pair, as well as the reflect.Value
and reflect.Type of the struct, and attempts to match the pair to its appropriate field
on the struct. (Again, you restrict the tool to working only with structs, though you
could extend it to work with map types.) Finding the matching field name is relatively
easy because you can reuse the fieldName() function defined in listing 11.14. But
when it comes to the value, you need to convert the data from the string form you
were given to whatever the data type of the struct field is. For the sake of space, the
code in listing 11.14 handles only a few data types (int, float64, string, and bool).
And you didn’t explore types that extend from your base kinds. But the pattern illus-
trated here could be extended to handle other types. Finally, you store the newly con-
verted value on the struct by first wrapping it in reflect.Value() and then setting the
appropriate struct field.
 One thing becomes clear when scanning the code you’ve written in this technique:
because of Go’s strong type system, converting between types often takes a lot of boil-
erplate code. Sometimes you can take advantage of built-in tools (for example,
fmt.Fprintf()). Other times, you must write tedious code. On certain occasions, you
might choose a different route. Instead of writing reflection code, you might find it
useful to use Go’s generator tool to generate source code for you. In the next section,
you’ll look at one example of writing a generator to do work that would otherwise
require runtime type checking and detailed reflection code.
11.3
Generating Go code with Go code
Newcomers to Go often share a set of similar concerns. With no generics, how do you
create type-specific collections? Is there an easier way to write typed collections instead
of using reflection? The runtime cost of reflection is high. Is there a way to write better-
performing code? Annotations have only limited capabilities; is there another way to
transform code? As mentioned before, Go doesn’t support macros, and annotations
have only limited capabilities. Is there another way to transform code? How do you
metaprogram in Go?
 An often overlooked feature of Go is its capability to generate code. Go ships with
a tool, go generate, designed exactly for this purpose. In fact, metaprogramming with
generators is a powerful answer to the preceding questions. Generated code (which is
then compiled) is much faster at runtime than reflection-based code. It’s also usually
much simpler. For generating a large number of repetitive but type-safe objects, gen-
erators can ease your development lifecycle. And although many programmers turn a
Sets the value for the 
relevant struct field
