279
TECHNIQUE 70
Generating code with go generate
This is a good example of typical usage of a Go generator. In this one file, you declare
a generator, you declare your type, and you even use the generator. Clearly, this code
will not compile until you’ve run the generator. But because the generator doesn’t
depend on your code compiling, you can (and should) run it before building your
package.
 That raises an important point about generators: they’re intended to be used as
development tools. The Go authors intended that generation was part of the develop-
ment lifecycle, not the build or runtime cycle. For example, you should always gener-
ate your code and then check the generated code into your VCS. You shouldn’t
require your users to run a generator (even if your users are other developers).
 To run the preceding generator, you need to do a few things. First, compile the
generator tool from listings 11.18 and 11.19. In order for the generator line to work,
you need to have it in the local directory (because you called it as ./queue). Alter-
nately, you could store the queue program anywhere on your path ($PATH), often
including $GOPATH/bin, and call it as //go:generate queue.
 With queue compiled and located where go generate can find it, you need to run
your go generate tool, and then you can run the main program using the generated
code:
$ ls
myint.go
$ go generate
$ ls
myint.go
myint_queue.go
$ go run myint.go myint_queue.go
First value: 1
After the generator has created your extra queue code, you can run the program in
listing 11.21. Everything it needs has been generated.
 The code you’re using for this generator is basic. Instead of adding good error
handling, you let the queue panic. And you don’t handle the case where you’d want to
queue pointers. But these problems are easily remedied by using the normal strate-
gies. Adding pointers, for example, is just a matter of adding another template param-
eter that adds an asterisk (*) where appropriate.
 Again, Go templates aren’t the only way to generate code. Using the go/ast pack-
age, you can generate code by programming the abstract syntax tree. For that matter,
you could just as easily write Python, C, or Erlang code that generated Go. You’re not
even limited to outputting Go. Imagine generating SQL CREATE statements by using a
generator that reads structs. One of the things that make go generate so elegant is
the versatility within its simplicity.
