G
o may be the perfect systems language. Built with simpli-
city, concurrency, and modern applications in mind, Go 
provides the core tool set for rapidly building web, cloud, 
and systems applications. If you know a language like Java or C#, 
it’s easy to get started with Go; the trick is fi nding the practical
dirt-under-the-fi ngernails techniques that you need to build 
production-ready code. 
Go in Practice guides you through dozens of real-world tech-
niques in key areas. Following a cookbook-style Problem/
Solution/Discussion format, this practical handbook builds on 
the foundational concepts of the Go language and introduces 
specifi c strategies you can use in your day-to-day applications. 
You’ll learn techniques for building web services, using Go in 
the cloud, testing and debugging, routing, network applications, 
and much more.  Aft er fi nishing this book, you will be ready to 
build sophisticated cloud-native Go applications.
What’s Inside
Dozens of specifi c, practical Golang techniques
Using Go for devops and cloudops
Writing RESTful web services and microservices
 Practical Web dev techniques 
Written for experienced developers who have already started ex-
ploring Go and want to use it eff ectively in a production setting.
Matt Butcher is a soft ware architect at Deis.  Matt Farina is a Prin-
cipal Engineer in the Advanced Technology Group at Hewlett 
Packard Enterprise. Th ey are both authors, speakers, and regular 
open source contributors.
To download their free eBook in PDF, ePub, and Kindle formats, owners 
of this book should visit manning.com/books/go-in-practice
$44.99 / Can $51.99  [INCLUDING eBOOK]
GO/PROGRAMMING
M A N N I N G
“
Vital knowledge that 
will help take your 
application development 
    to the next level.”
—From the Foreword by 
Brian Ketelsen
Coauthor of Go in Action
“
An invaluable resource 
you can start using on 
day one to build high-
performance, real-world 
web applications.”
 
—Gary A. Staff ord
Th oughtWorks
“
A great combination 
of simple examples with 
thorough explanations of 
  practical concepts in Go.”
—Brandon Titus, Mercury
Butcher    Farina
Go  IN PRACTICE
SEE INSERT
