44
CHAPTER 3
Packaging and tooling
compiled a large C program knows just how hard it can be to pinpoint the things that
matter in a sea of compiler warnings.
 Sometimes you may need to import a package that you don’t need to reference
identifiers from. You’ll see why this might be useful in the next section. When this is
the case, you can use the blank identifier _ to rename an import. 
BLANK IDENTIFIER
The _ (underscore character) is known as the blank identi-
fier and has many uses within Go. It’s used when you want to throw away the
assignment of a value, including the assignment of an import to its package
name, or ignore return values from a function when you’re only interested in
the others. 
3.3
init
Each package has the ability to provide as many init functions as necessary to be
invoked at the beginning of execution time. All the init functions that are discovered
by the compiler are scheduled to be executed prior to the main function being exe-
cuted. The init functions are great for setting up packages, initializing variables, or
performing any other bootstrapping you may need prior to the program running. 
 An example of this is database drivers. They register themselves with the sql pack-
age when their init function is executed at startup because the sql package can’t
know about the drivers that exist when it’s compiled. Let’s look at an example of what
an init function might do.
01 package postgres
02
03 import (
04
"database/sql"
05 )
06
07 func init() {
08
sql.Register("postgres", new(PostgresDriver))
09 }
This code lives inside your pretend database driver for the PostgreSQL database.
When a program imports this package, the init function will be called, causing the
database driver to be registered with Go’s sql package as an available driver.
 In the program that we write using this new database driver, we’ll use the blank
identifier to import the package so the new driver is included with the sql package. As
stated earlier, you can’t import a package that you aren’t using, so renaming the
import with the blank identifier allows the init function to be discovered and sched-
uled to run without the compiler issuing an error about unused imports. 
 Now we can tell the sql.Open method to use this driver.
Listing 3.5
init function usage
Creates new instance 
of the postgres driver. 
We’ve intentionally 
left out its definition 
to focus on init().
