67
TECHNIQUE 12
Locking with a mutex
you pass the file into the program as filename. You do this for a reason related to the
Go scheduler.
 The variable file is scoped to the for loop, which means that its value will change
on each iteration of the loop. But as you saw earlier in the chapter, declaring a gorou-
tine doesn’t result in its immediate execution. If your loop runs five times, you’ll have
five goroutines scheduled, but possibly none of them executed. And on each of those
five iterations, the value of file will change. By the time the goroutines execute, they
may all have the same (fifth) version of the file string. That isn’t what you want. You
want each to be scheduled with that iteration’s value of file, so you pass it as a func-
tion parameter, which ensures that the value of file is passed to each goroutine as it’s
scheduled.
 Although this might at first seem an esoteric problem, it’s not uncommon. Any-
time a loop executes goroutines, you need to be extra careful that the variables the
goroutine uses aren’t changed by the loop. The easiest way to accomplish this is to
make copies of the variables inside the loop.
TECHNIQUE 12
Locking with a mutex
Anytime two or more goroutines are working with the same piece of data, and that
data may change, you have the potential for a race condition. In a race condition, two
things are “racing” to use the same piece of information. Problems arise when both
are working with the same data at around the same time. One goroutine may be only
partway through modifying a value when another goroutine tries to use it. And that
situation can have unintended consequences.
PROBLEM
Multiple goroutines need to access or modify the same piece of data.
SOLUTION
One simple way to avoid this situation is for each goroutine to place a “lock” on a
resource that it’s using, and then unlock the resource when it’s done. For all other
goroutines, when they see the lock, they wait until the lock is removed before attempt-
ing to lock that resource on their own. Use sync.Mutex to lock and unlock the object.
DISCUSSION
The built-in sync package provides a sync.Locker interface as well as a couple of lock
implementations. These provide essential locking behavior.
Don’t reimplement locks
For a while now, a rumor has been circulating that Go locks perform so poorly that
you’re better off implementing your own. This has led many Go developers to build
their own lock libraries. In the best case, this is unnecessary work. In the worst case,
developers build broken or slower locking systems.
Unless you have a proven use case and performance-sensitive code, you should
refrain from reimplementing locks on your own. The built-in package is simple to use,
battle-tested, and meets the performance needs of most applications.
