63
TECHNIQUE 11
Waiting for goroutines
$ go run ./simple.go
Outside a goroutine.
Outside again.
The goroutine never executes. Why? The main function returns (terminating the pro-
gram) before the scheduler has a chance to run the goroutine. When you run runtime
.Gosched, though, you give the runtime an opportunity to execute other goroutines
before it exits.
 There are other ways of yielding to the scheduler; perhaps the most common is to
call time.Sleep. But none gives you the explicit ability to tell the scheduler what to do
when you yield. At best, you can indicate to the scheduler only that the present gorou-
tine is at a point where it can or should pause. Most of the time, the outcome of yield-
ing to the scheduler is predictable. But keep in mind that other goroutines may also
hit points at which they pause, and in such cases, the scheduler may again continue
running your function.
 For example, if you execute a goroutine that runs a database query, running
runtime.Gosched may not be enough to ensure that the other goroutine has com-
pleted its query. It may end up paused, waiting for the database, in which case the
scheduler may continue running your function. Thus, although calling the Go sched-
uler may guarantee that the scheduler has a chance to check for other goroutines,
you shouldn’t rely on it as a tool for ensuring that other goroutines have a chance to
complete.
 There’s a better way of doing that. The solution to this complex situation is shown
next.
TECHNIQUE 11
Waiting for goroutines
Sometimes you’ll want to start multiple goroutines but not continue working until
those goroutines have completed their objective. Go wait groups are a simple way to
achieve this.
PROBLEM
One goroutine needs to start one or more other goroutines, and then wait for them to
finish. In this practical example, you’ll focus on a more specific problem: you want to
compress multiple files as fast as possible and then display a summary.
SOLUTION
Run individual tasks inside goroutines. Use sync.WaitGroup to signal the outer pro-
cess that the goroutines are done and it can safely continue. Figure 3.1 illustrates this
general design: several workers are started, and work is delegated to the workers. One
process delegates the tasks to the workers and then waits for them to complete.
DISCUSSION
Go’s standard library provides several useful tools for working with synchronization.
One that frequently comes in handy is sync.WaitGroup, a tool for telling one gorou-
tine to wait until other goroutines complete.
