73
TECHNIQUE 13
Using multiple channels
 
TECHNIQUE 13
Using multiple channels
Go developers are fond of pointing out that channels are communication tools. They
enable one goroutine to communicate information to another goroutine. Sometimes
the best way to solve concurrency problems in Go is to communicate more informa-
tion. And that often translates into using more channels.
PROBLEM
You want to use channels to send data from one goroutine to another, and be able to
interrupt that process to exit.
SOLUTION
Use select and multiple channels. It’s a common practice in Go to use channels to
signal when something is done or ready to close.
DISCUSSION
To introduce channels, let’s revisit the first code example in this chapter. That pro-
gram echoed user input for 30 seconds. It accomplished this by using a goroutine to
echo the information, and a time.Sleep call to wait. Let’s rewrite that program to use
channels in addition to goroutines.
 You’re not looking to add new functionality or even to vastly improve the initial
example. You’re interested in taking a different approach to solving the same prob-
lem. In so doing, you’ll see several idiomatic uses of channels.
 Before looking at the code in listing 3.7, consider the following concepts that
you’ll see come into play here:
Channels are created with make, just like maps and slices.
The arrow operator (<-) is used both to signify the direction of a channel (out
chan<- []byte) and to send or receive data over a channel (buf := <-echo).
The select statement can watch multiple channels (zero or more). Until some-
thing happens, it’ll wait (or execute a default statement, if supplied). When a
channel has an event, the select statement will execute that event. You’ll see
more on channels later in this chapter.
Don’t overuse channels
Channels are a fantastic tool for communicating between goroutines. They’re simple
to use, as you’ll see, and make concurrent programming much easier than the
threading models of other popular languages.
But be wary of overuse. Channels carry overhead and have a performance impact.
They introduce complexity into a program. And most important, channels are the sin-
gle biggest source of memory management issues in Go programs. As with any tool,
use channels when the need arises, but resist the temptation to polish your new ham-
mer and then go looking for nails.
