75
TECHNIQUE 13
Using multiple channels
(receive-only channel that receives time.Time objects) that, after 30 seconds, will
receive a message. Thus, practically speaking, the two methods of pausing in the fol-
lowing listing are operationally equivalent.
package main
import (
     "time"
)
func main() {
     time.Sleep(5 * time.Second)
     sleep := time.After(5 * time.Second)
     <-sleep
}
Some functions (for example, time.After) create and initialize channels for you. But
to create a new channel, you can use the built-in make function.
 Channels are bidirectional by default. But as you saw in the preceding example,
you can specify a “direction” for the channel when passing it into a function (or dur-
ing any other assignment). The readStdin function can only write to the out channel.
Any attempt to read from it will result in a compile-time error. Generally, it’s consid-
ered good programming practice to indicate in a function signature whether the
function receives or sends on a channel.
 The last important facet of this program is select. A select statement is syntacti-
cally similar to a switch statement. It can take any number of case statements, as well
as a single optional default statement.
 The select statement checks each case condition to see whether any of them
have a send or receive operation that needs to be performed. If exactly one of the
case statements can send or receive, select will execute that case. If more than one
can send or receive, select randomly picks one. If none of the case statements can
send or receive, select falls through to a default (if specified). And if no default is
specified, select blocks until one of the case statements can send or receive.
 In this example, select is waiting to receive on two channels. If a message comes
over the echo channel, the string that’s sent is stored in buf (buf := <-echo), and then
written to standard output. This illustrates that a receive operation can assign the
received value to a variable. 
 But the second case that your select is waiting for is a message on the done chan-
nel. Because you don’t particularly care about the contents of the message, you don’t
assign the received value to a variable. You just read it off the channel, and the select
discards the value (<-done).
 There’s no default value on your select, so it’ll block until either a message is
received on <-echo or a message is received on <-done. When the message is received,
select will run the case block and then return control. You’ve wrapped your select
Listing 3.8
Pausing with Sleep and After
Blocks for five seconds
Creates a channel that will get 
notified in five seconds, then 
block until that channel 
receives a notification
