72
CHAPTER 3
Concurrency in Go
func tallyWords(filename string, dict *words) error {
     // Unchanged from before
}
In this revised version, the words struct declares an anonymous field referencing
sync.Mutex, basically granting the words.Lock and words.Unlock methods. This is a
common way of exposing a lock on a struct. (You used these methods when looping
over the words at the end of main.)
 Now, inside the add method, you lock the object, modify the map, and then unlock
the object. When multiple goroutines enter the add method, the first will get the lock,
and the others will wait until the lock is released. This will prevent multiple goroutines
from modifying the map at the same time.
 It’s important to note that locks work only when all access to the data is managed
by the same lock. If some data is accessed with locks, and others without, a race condi-
tion can still occur. 
 Sometimes it’s useful to allow multiple read operations on a piece of data, but to
allow only one write (and no reads) during a write operation. The sync.RWLock pro-
vides this functionality. The sync package has several other useful tools that simplify
coordination across goroutines. But at this point, let’s turn our attention to another
core concept in Go’s concurrency model: channels.
3.3
Working with channels
Channels provide a way to send messages from one goroutine to another. This section
covers several ways of using channels to accomplish common tasks and solve common
problems.
 The easiest way to understand channels is to compare them to network sockets.
Two applications can connect over a network socket. Depending on how these appli-
cations were written, network traffic can flow in a single direction or bidirectionally.
Sometimes network connections are short-lived, and sometimes they stick around for
a long time. Smart applications may even use multiple network connections, each
sending and receiving different kinds of data. Just about any data can be sent over a
network socket, but there’s a drawback: that data has to be marshaled into raw bytes.
 Go channels work like sockets between goroutines within a single application. Like
network sockets, they can be unidirectional or bidirectional. Channels can be short-
lived or long-lived. And it’s common to use more than one channel in an app, having
different channels send different kinds of data. But unlike network connections,
channels are typed and can send structured data. There’s generally no need to mar-
shal data onto a channel.
 Let’s dive into channels by refactoring an earlier code sample to use channels.
