82
CHAPTER 3
Concurrency in Go
This pattern is simple: there’s one step to lock and one to unlock. If you run this pro-
gram, the output will look like this:
$ go run lock.go
2 wants the lock
1 wants the lock
2 has the lock
5 wants the lock
6 wants the lock
4 wants the lock
3 wants the lock
2 is releasing the lock
1 has the lock
1 is releasing the lock
5 has the lock
5 is releasing the lock
6 has the lock
6 is releasing the lock
3 has the lock
3 is releasing the lock
4 has the lock
4 is releasing the lock
In this output, you can see how your six goroutines sequentially acquire and release
the lock. Within the first few milliseconds of starting the program, all six goroutines
have tried to get the lock. But only goroutine 2 gets it. A few hundred milliseconds
later, 2 releases the lock and 1 gets it. And the lock trading continues until the last
goroutine (4) acquires and releases the lock. (Note that in this code, you can rely on
the memory manager to clean up the locking channel. After all references to the
channel are gone, it’ll clean up the channel for you.)
 Listing 3.12 illustrates one advantage of using buffered queues: preventing send
operations from blocking while there’s room in the queue. Specifying a queue length
also allows you to specify just how much buffering you want to do. You might be able
to imagine needing a lock that can be claimed by up to two goroutines, and you could
accomplish this with a channel of length 2. Buffered queues are also employed for
constructing message queues and pipelines.
3.4
Summary
This chapter introduced Go’s concurrency system. You first looked at goroutines and
the useful packages that Go provides for synchronizing across goroutines. Then you
looked at Go’s powerful channel system, which allows multiple goroutines to commu-
nicate with each other over typed pipes. You covered several important idioms and
patterns, including the following:
Go’s CSP-based concurrency model
Concurrent processing with goroutines
Using the sync package for waiting and locking
