76
CHAPTER 3
Concurrency in Go
in a for loop, so the select will be run repeatedly until the <-done channel receives a
message and the program exits.
 One thing we didn’t cover in this technique is closing channels when you’re done
with them. In our example app, the program is too short-lived to require this, and you
rely on the runtime to clean up after you. In the next technique, you’ll look at a strat-
egy for closing channels.
TECHNIQUE 14
Closing channels
In Go, developers rely on the memory manager to clean up after themselves. When a
variable drops out of scope, the associated memory is scrubbed. But you have to be
careful when working with goroutines and channels. What happens if you have a
sender and receiver goroutine, and the sender finishes sending data? Are the receiver
and channel automatically cleaned up? Nope. The memory manager will only clean
up values that it can ensure won’t be used again, and in our example, an open chan-
nel and a goroutine can’t be safely cleaned.
 Imagine for a moment that this code was part of a larger program, and that the
function main was a regular function called repeatedly throughout the lifetime of the
app. Each time it’s called, it creates a new channel and a new goroutine. But the chan-
nel is never closed, nor does the goroutine ever return. That program would leak both
channels and goroutines.
 The question arises: how can you correctly and safely clean up when you’re using
goroutines and channels? Failing to clean up can cause memory leaks or channel/
goroutine leaks, where unneeded goroutines and channels consume system resources
but do nothing.
PROBLEM
You don’t want leftover channels and goroutines to consume resources and cause
leaky applications. You want to safely close channels and exit goroutines.
SOLUTION
The straightforward answer to the question “How do I avoid leaking channels and
goroutines?” is “Close your channels and return from your goroutines.” Although that
answer is correct, it’s also incomplete. Closing channels the wrong way will cause your
program to panic or leak goroutines. 
 The predominant method for avoiding unsafe channel closing is to use additional
channels to notify goroutines when it’s safe to close a channel.
DISCUSSION
You can use a few idiomatic techniques for safely shutting down channels.
 Let’s start, though, with a negative example, shown in the following listing. Begin-
ning with the general idea of the program from listing 3.7, let’s construct a program
that incorrectly manages its channel.
