238
CHAPTER 10
The standard library
but using time.After in an HTTP handler function can lead to the same issues
because the function will be called multiple times.
 In general, we should be cautious when using time.After. Remember that the
resources created will only be released when the timer expires. When the call to
time.After is repeated (for example, in a loop, a Kafka consumer function, or an
HTTP handler), it may lead to a peak in memory consumption. In this case, we should
favor time.NewTimer.
 The following section discusses the most common mistakes during JSON handling. 
10.3
#77: Common JSON-handling mistakes
Go has excellent support for JSON with the encoding/json package. This section cov-
ers three common mistakes related to encoding (marshaling) and decoding (unmar-
shaling) JSON data.
10.3.1 Unexpected behavior due to type embedding
In mistake #10, “Not being aware of the possible problems with type embedding,” we
looked at issues related to type embedding. In the context of JSON handling, let’s
discuss another potential impact of type embedding that can lead to unexpected
marshaling/unmarshaling results.
 In the following example, we create an Event struct containing an ID and an
embedded timestamp:
type Event struct {
ID int
time.Time
}
Because time.Time is embedded, in the same way we described previously, we can
access the time.Time methods directly at the Event level: for example, event
.Second().
 What are the possible impacts of embedded fields with JSON marshaling? Let’s
find out in the following example. We will instantiate an Event and marshal it into
JSON. What should be the output of this code?
event := Event{
ID:
1234,
Time: time.Now(),
}
b, err := json.Marshal(event)
if err != nil {
return err
}
fmt.Println(string(b))
We may expect this code to print something like the following:
{"ID":1234,"Time":"2021-05-18T21:15:08.381652+02:00"}
Embedded field
The name of an anonymous field 
during a struct instantiation is 
the name of the struct (Time).
