96
Lesson 12  Functions
The result returned by Unix is of the type Time. Thanks to type inference, the code that 
calls Unix doesn’t need to specify the result type, which would be more verbose.
NOTE Lesson 13 demonstrates how to declare new types like time.Time and big.Int.
The time package declares and exports the Time type, which begins with an uppercase let-
ter, just like the Unix function. By using capitalization to indicate what’s exported, it’s 
apparent that the Time type is accessible from other packages.
The Unix function accepts two parameters of the same type, documented as follows:
func Unix(sec int64, nsec int64) Time
But when parameters are listed in a function declaration, you only need to specify the 
type when it changes, so it could have been written like this:
func Unix(sec, nsec int64) Time
This shortcut is optional, but it’s used elsewhere, such as the Contains function in the 
strings package, which accepts two parameters of type string:
func Contains(s, substr string) bool
TIP The documentation at golang.org/pkg sometimes has examples that can be
expanded, and you’ll find additional examples at gobyexample.com. If you’re forging ahead on
your own projects while learning Go, these examples can be invaluable.
Many programming languages have functions that accept multiple parameters, but Go 
functions can also return multiple results. First shown in lesson 10, the Atoi function 
converts a string to a number and returns two results, which are assigned to countdown 
and err here:
countdown, err := strconv.Atoi("10")
The documentation for the strconv package declares Atoi like this:
func Atoi(s string) (i int, err error)
Two results are specified between parentheses, much like the parameter list, with a 
name followed by a type for each result. In function declarations you can also list the 
result types without names:
func Atoi(s string) (int, error)
NOTE The error type is a built-in type for errors, which lesson 28 covers in depth.
A function you’ve been using since the beginning of this book is Println. It’s a rather 
unique function in that it can accept one parameter, or two, or more. It can also accept 
parameters of different types, including integers and strings:
 
