architectures.
type
alignment guarantee
bool, uint8, int8
1
uint16, int16
2
uint32, int32
4
float32, complex64
4
arrays
depend on element types
structs
depend on field types
other types
size of a native word
The Go specification says:
For a variable x of a struct type: unsafe.Alignof(x) is the largest of all the values
unsafe.Alignof(x.f) for each field f of x, but at least 1.
For a variable x of an array type: unsafe.Alignof(x) is the same as the alignment
of a variable of the array’s element type.
The official standard Go compiler ensures that the size of a type is a multiple of the alignment
guarantee of the type.
2.5
Struct padding
To satisfy type alignment guarantee rules mentioned previously, Go compilers may pad some bytes
after certain fields of struct values. The padded bytes are counted for struct sizes. So the size of a
struct type may be not a simple sum of the sizes of all its fields.
For example, the size of the struct type shown in the following code is 24 on 64-bit architectures.
type T1 struct {
a int8
// 7 bytes are padded here
b int64
c int16
// 6 bytes are padded here.
}
The reason why its size is 24:
• The alignment guarantee of the struct type is the same as its largest alignment guarantee of
its filed types. Here is the alignment guarantee (8, a native word) of type int64. This means
the distance between the address of the field b and a of a value of the struct type is a multiple
of 8. Clever compilers should choose the minimum possible value: 8. To get the desired
alignment, 7 bytes are padded after the field a.
• The size of the struct type must be a multiple of the alignment guarantee of the struct type. So
considering the existence of the field c, the minimum possible size is 24 (8x3), which should
be used by clever compilers. To get the desired size, 6 bytes are padded after the field c.
Field orders matter in struct type size calculations. If we change the orders of field b and c of the
above struct type, then the size of the struct will become to 16.
type T2 struct {
a int8
12
