Chapter 3
Memory Allocations
3.1
Memory blocks
The basic memory allocation units are called memory blocks. A memory block is a continuous
memory segment. As aforementioned, at run time, a value part is carried on a single memory
block.
A single memory block might carry multiple value parts. The size of a memory block must not be
smaller than the size of any value part it carries.
When a memory block is carrying a value part, we may say the value part is referencing the memory
bock.
Memory allocation operations will consume some CPU resources to find the suitable memory
blocks. So the more memory blocks are created (for memory allocations), the more CPU resources
are consumed. In programming, we should try to avoid unnecessary memory allocations to get
better code execution performances.
3.2
Memory allocation places
Go runtime might find a memory block on the stack (one kind of memory zone) of a goroutine or
the heap (the other kind of memory zone) of the whole program to carry some value parts. The
finding-out process is called a (memory) allocation.
The memory management manners of stack and heap are quite different. For most cases, finding a
memory block on stack is much cheaper than on heap.
Collecting stack memory blocks is also much cheaper than collecting heap memory blocks. In fact,
stack memory blocks don’t need to be collected. The stack of a goroutine could be actually viewed
as a single memory block, and it will be collected as a whole when the goroutine exits.
On the other hand, when all the value parts being carried on/by a heap memory block are not used
any more (in other words, no alive value part is still referencing the memory block), the memory
block will be viewed as garbage and automatically collected eventually, during runtime garbage
collection cycles, which might consume certain CPU resources (garbage collection will be talked
in detail in a later chapter). Generally, the more memory blocks are allocated on heap, the larger
pressure is made for garbage collection.
22
