Chapter 4
Stack and Escape Analysis
4.1
Goroutine stacks
In the last chapter, it is mentioned that some memory blocks will be allocated on stack(s), one of
the two kinds of memory zones.
When a new goroutine is created, Go runtime will create a stack memory zone for the goroutine. The
current official standard Go runtime uses contiguous stacks (instead of segmented stacks), which
means the stack memory zone is a single continuous memory segment.
Allocating memory blocks on stack is generally much faster than on heap, which will be explained
in the following sections. Memory blocks allocated on stack don’t need to be garbage collected,
which is another big advantage over memory blocks allocated on heap. Thirdly, memory blocks
allocated on stack are also often more CPU cache friendly than the ones allocated on heap.
So, generally speaking, if it is possible, the official standard Go compiler will let Go runtime try to
allocate memory blocks on stack.
4.2
Escape analysis
Not all value parts are capable of being allocated on stack. One principle condition to allocate a
value part on stack is the value part will be only used in one goroutine (the current one) during its
life time. Generally, if the compiler detects a value part is used by more than one goroutine or it is
unable to make sure whether or not the value part is used by only one goroutine, then it will let the
value part allocated on heap. We also say the value part escapes (to heap).
The job of determining which value parts could be allocated on stack is handled by the escape
analysis module of a Go compiler. However, situations are often complicated in practice so that it
is almost impossible for the escape analysis module to find out all such value parts at compile time.
And a more powerful escape analysis implementation will increase compilation time much. So, at
run time, some value parts will be allocated on heap even if they could be safely allocated on stack.
Please note that a value part could be allocated on stack doesn’t mean the value part will be allocated
on stack for sure at run time. If the size of the value part is too large, then the compiler will still
let the value part allocated on heap anyway. The size thresholds used in the official standard Go
compiler will be introduced in later sections of this chapter.
33
