From the outputs, we could get
• the frame size of the bar function is 5024 bytes.
• the frame size of the foo function is 10056 bytes.
• the frame size of the main function is 64 bytes.
• the frame size of the duck function is 16024 bytes. Please note that, although the duck
function is a de facto dummy function, its frame size is not zero. This fact will be made use
of in a code optimization trick shown later.
At run time, before entering the execution of a function call, Go runtime will mark out a memory
segment on the current stack for the call (to allocate stack memory blocks). The memory segment
is called the stack frame of the function call and its size is the stack frame size of the called function.
As mentioned above, the frame size is calculated at compile time.
When a value (part) within a function is determined to be allocated on stack, its memory address off-
set (relative to the start of the stack frame of any call to the function) is also determined, at compile
time. At run time, once the stack frame of a call to the function is marked out, the memory addresses
of all value parts allocated on the stack within the function call are all determined consequently,
which is why allocating memory blocks on stack is much faster than on heap.
4.4
Stacks growth and shrinkage
At run time, a cursor is used to mark the boundary between the used part and available part on
the stack of a goroutine. The cursor will move forwards (towards the available part) when enter-
ing a deeper function call and move backwards (towards the used part) when a function call fully
exits. The move-forwards and move-backwards step sizes are equal to the stack frame size of the
respective called functions. Go runtime uses this way to mark out stack frames for function calls.
The stack size of a goroutine might be dynamic at run time. In the implementation of the official
standard Go runtime, before version 1.19, the initial size of a stack is always 2KiB; since version
1.19, the initial size is adaptive, but the default initial stack size is still 2KiB.
For some goroutines, as function calls go deeper and deeper, more and more function call stack
frames are needed on the stack, the current stack size might become insufficient. So stacks will
grow on demand during the execution of a goroutine. On the contrary, when the function call depth
become shallower and shallower, the stack size of a goroutine will become too large. So stacks
might also shrinkage. However, to avoid growing and shrinking frequently, a stack will not shrink
immediately as soon as it becomes too large. The stack of a goroutine will shrink only when it is
found too large during a garbage collection cycle and the goroutine isn’t doing anything or sitting
in a system call or a cgo call. Each stack shrinkage halves the old stack. (Special thanks to Ian
Lance Taylor for the explanations.)
In the current implementation of the official standard Go compiler and runtime, stack sizes are
always 2n bytes, where n is an integer larger than 10. The minimum stack size is 2KiB.
In the process of a stack growth (shrinkage), Go runtime will create a larger (smaller) stack memory
zone to replace the old one, then the already used part of the old stack will be copied to the new
stack, which leads to the addresses of all value parts allocated on the stack change. So after the
copying, the stack allocated pointers which are referencing stack value parts must be all updated
accordingly.
The following is an example to show the effects of stack growth and shrinkage. We will find the
address of the variable x changes after a stack growth (caused by calling the function f) and after
a garbage collection cycle (started manually) ends.
37
