Chapter 5
Garbage Collection
This chapter doesn’t plan to explain the Garbage Collection (GC) implementation made by the
official standard Go runtime in detail. Only several facts in the GC implementation will be touched.
Within a GC cycle, there is a scan+mark phase and a sweep phase.
During the scan+mark phase of a GC cycle, the garbage collector will scan all pointers in the already-
known alive value parts to find more alive value parts (referenced by those already-known alive
ones), until no more alive value parts need to be scanned. In the process, all heap memory blocks
hosting alive value parts are marked as non-garbage memory blocks.
During the sweep phase of a GC cycle, the heap memory blocks which are not marked as non-
garbage will be viewed as garbage and collected.
So, generally speaking, the more pointers are used, the more pressure is made for GC (for the more
scan work to do).
5.1
GC pacer
At run time, a new GC cycle will start automatically when certain conditions are reached. The
current automatic GC pacer design includes the following scheduling strategies:
• When the scan+mark phase of a GC cycle is just done, Go runtime will calculate a target heap
size by using the configured GOGC percentage value. After the GC cycle, when the size of the
heap (approximately) exceeds the target heap size later, the next GC cycle will automatically
start. This strategy (called new heap memory percentage strategy below) will be described
with more details in a later section.
• A new GC cycle will also automatically start if the last GC cycle has ended for at least two
minutes. This is important for some value finalizers to get run and some goroutine stacks get
shrunk in time.
• Go toolchain 1.19 introduced a new scheduling strategy: the memory limit strategy. When
the total amount of memory Go runtime uses (approximately) surpasses the (soft) limit, a
new GC cycle will start.
(Note: The above descriptions are rough. The official standard Go runtime also considers some
other factors in the GC pacer implementation, which is why the above descriptions use the ”ap-
proximately” wording.)
The three strategies may take effects at the same time.
56
