The second strategy is an auxiliary strategy. This article will not talk more about it. With the
other two strategies in play, the more frequently memory blocks are allocated on heap, the more
frequently GC cycles start.
Please note that, the current GC pacer design is not promised to be perfect for every use cases. It
will be improved constantly in future official standard Go compiler/runtime versions.
5.2
Automatic GC might affect Go program execution perfor-
mance
GC cycles will consume some CPU resources, so they might affect Go program execution perfor-
mance to some extend, depending on how program code is written. Generally, if the code of a
program is not written very badly, we don’t need to worry about the performance impact caused
by GC, for GC cycles only consume a small fragment of the CPU resources consumed by the main
program logic. Comparing to the conveniences brought by automatic GC, the small performance
loss is not a big deal.
However, if some code of a program is written in a bad way which makes GC cycles busy (run fre-
quently and scan a large quantity of pointers), then GC might affect program execution performance
seriously.
5.3
How to reduce GC pressure?
No matter how the GC pacer is (and will be) designed, the basic principles to reduce GC pressure
include:
• allocate less short-lived memory blocks on heap (garbage production speed control).
• create less pointers (scan work load control).
When a local value part is allocated on heap, an implicit pointer is created on stack to reference
the local value part allocated on heap so that the value part is traceable (from stacks). This means
reducing heap allocations is helpful to reduce pointers.
Heap memory allocations and pointer creations are inevitable in programming. If we need, just do
it. We don’t need to deliberately avoid using pointers with a lot of efforts.
In fact, pointers could be often used to reduce copy costs. So whether or not some pointers should
be used depends on specific situations. We should only avoid using pointers in the situations where
their drawbacks are obvious.
We should try to avoid unnecessary memory allocations, especially unnecessary heap memory al-
locations. However, admittedly, for many reasons, such as language safety and API design re-
strictions, unnecessary memory allocations are hard to be avoided totally. Go is not C, we should
acknowledge and accept the fact. After all, Go provides much more conveniences than C.
Previous chapters have introduced some tips to avoid allocations. The coming chapters will intro-
duce more.
5.4
Memory fragments
With memory blocks being allocated and collected from time to time, memory will become frag-
mented. The current official standard Go runtime implementation manages memory in an effective
way (based on tcmalloc), so generally memory fragmenting is not a problem in Go programming.
57
