Preface
Since its first release, the Go programming language has gained popularity among all types of software 
developers. Simple language syntax, ease of use, and a rich set of libraries made Go one of the primary 
languages for writing different kinds of software, from small tools to large-scale systems consisting 
of hundreds of components.
Among the primary Go use cases is microservice development – the development of individual 
applications, called microservices, that can play various roles, from processing payments to storing 
user data. Organizing a large system as a set of microservices often brings multiple advantages, such as 
increasing the development and deployment speed, but also brings multiple types of challenges. Among 
such challenges are service discovery and communication, integration testing, and service monitoring.
In this book, we will illustrate how to implement Go microservices and establish communication 
between them, how to enable the deployment of individual microservices and secure their interactions, 
and how to store and retrieve service data and provide service APIs, enabling other applications to 
use our microservices. You will learn about some of the industry’s best practices related to all of these 
topics and get a detailed overview of the possible challenges along the way, as well as the possible 
benefits. The knowledge that you will gain by reading this book will help you to both create new 
microservices and efficiently maintain the existing ones. I hope this journey will be exciting for you!
Who this book is for
This book is for all types of developers: from people interested in learning how to write microservices 
in Go to seasoned professionals who want to take the next step in mastering the art of writing scalable 
and reliable microservice-based systems. The first two parts of the book, covering the development of 
microservices, would be useful to developers who are just starting their experience with Go or those 
who are interested in the best practices of organizing the Go application code base according to the 
industry’s best standards; the final part would be useful for all developers, even the most experienced 
ones, as it provides great insights on maintaining and operating microservices at scale.
What this book covers
Chapter 1, Introduction to Microservices, will cover the key benefits of and common issues with a 
microservice architecture, helping you to understand which problems microservices solve and which 
challenges they usually introduce. The chapter emphasizes the role of the Go programming language 
in microservice development and lays down the foundation for the rest of the book.
