xiv
Preface
Chapter 2, Scaffolding a Go Microservice, will introduce the you to the main principles of the Go 
programming language and provide the most important recommendations for writing Go code. It 
will cover the process of setting up the right structure to organize the microservice code in Go and 
introduce the you to an example application consisting of three microservices. Finally, the chapter will 
illustrate how to scaffold the code for each of the example microservices. The example microservices 
implemented in this chapter are going to be used throughout the book, with each chapter adding 
new features to them.
Chapter 3, Service Discovery, will talk about the problem of service discovery and illustrates how 
different services can find each other in a microservice environment. It will cover the most popular 
service discovery tools and walk the you through the steps of adding service discovery logic to the 
example microservices from the previous chapter.
Chapter 4, Serialization, will bring us to the concept of data serialization, which is required for 
understanding upcoming chapters covering microservice communication. The you will be introduced 
to the Protocol Buffers data format, which is going to be used for encoding and decoding the data 
transferred between our example microservices. The chapter will provide examples of how to define 
serializable data types and generate code for them, and how to use the generated code in Go microservices.
Chapter 5, Synchronous Communication, will cover the topic of synchronous communication between 
microservices. It will illustrate how to define service APIs using the Protocol Buffers format and 
introduce the you to gRPC, a service communication framework. The chapter will wrap up with 
examples of how to implement microservice gateways and clients and perform remote calls between 
our microservices.
Chapter 6, Asynchronous Communication, will talk about asynchronous communication between 
microservices. It will introduce the you to a popular asynchronous communication tool, Apache Kafka, 
and provide examples of sending and receiving messages, using it for our example microservices. The 
chapter will wrap up with an overview of the best practices for using asynchronous communication 
in microservice environments.
Chapter 7, Storing Service Data, will cover the topic of persisting service data in databases. The you 
will learn about the common types of databases and the benefits they bring to software developers. 
The chapter will walk the you through the process of implementing the logic for storing service data 
in a MySQL database.
Chapter 8, Deployment with Kubernetes, will talk about service deployment and provide an overview 
of a popular deployment and orchestration platform, Kubernetes. The chapter will illustrate how to 
prepare service code for deployment and how to deploy it using Kubernetes. The chapter will include 
the best practices for deploying microservice applications.
