Preface
xv
Chapter 9, Unit and Integration Testing, will describe the common techniques of testing Go microservice 
code. It will cover the basics of Go unit and integration testing and demonstrate how to test the 
microservice code from the previous chapters. The chapter will wrap up with the industry’s best 
practices for writing and organizing tests.
Chapter 10, Reliability Overview, will introduce the you to the topic of system reliability and describe 
the core principles, instruments, and industry best practices for building reliable and highly available 
microservices. It will illustrate how to automate service responses to various types of failures, as well 
as how to establish the processes for keeping service reliability under control.
Chapter 11, Collecting Service Telemetry Data, will provide a detailed overview of modern instruments 
and solutions for collecting service telemetry data, such as logs, metrics, and traces. The chapter will 
provide lots of detailed examples of collecting all different types of telemetry data and list some of the 
best practices for working with them.
Chapter 12, Setting up Service Alerting, will illustrate how to set up automated incident detection 
and notification for microservices, using the telemetry data collected in the previous chapter. It will 
introduce the you to a popular alerting and monitoring tool, Prometheus, and show how to set up 
Prometheus alerts for our example microservices.
Chapter 13, Advanced Topics, will wrap up the last part of the book and cover some of the advanced 
topics in microservice development, such as profiling, dashboarding, frameworks, service ownership, 
and security. The chapter will include some examples of setting up secure communication between 
Go microservices using the JWT protocol.
To get the most out of this book
I suggest you get some familiarity with Go by implementing a few applications, such as simple web 
services. Familiarity with a Docker tool would be a plus because we will be using it for running some 
of the tools that our microservices will be using. Finally, I strongly suggest implementing, running, and 
playing with the example microservices that we will be implementing so that all your knowledge will be 
cemented by practice.
Software/hardware covered in the book Operating system requirements
Go 1.11 or above
Windows, macOS, or Linux
Docker
Windows, macOS, or Linux
grpcurl
Windows, macOS, or Linux
Kubernetes
Windows, macOS, or Linux
Prometheus
Windows, macOS, or Linux
Jaeger
Windows, macOS, or Linux
Graphviz
Windows, macOS, or Linux
