Introduction to Microservices
2
In the microservice architecture model, each component would be an independent service playing 
its own role in the system.
Organizing each part of the application as a separate service is not necessarily a requirement. As with 
any architecture model or any aspect of software development, engineers need to be careful with 
choosing a particular approach or solution – doing an initial analysis and understanding the solution 
under the given conditions. 
Before we proceed to the key benefits and downsides of microservices, let's see what challenges you 
could face when the application is not separated into multiple services.
Motivation to use microservices
In order to understand the motivation behind using the microservice architecture, it is very important 
to see the opposite approach – when the application is built and executed as a single program. Such 
applications are called monolithic applications or monoliths.
Monolithic architecture is, in most ways, the simplest model to implement since it does not involve 
splitting the application into multiple parts that need to coordinate with each other. This can provide 
you with major advantages in many cases, such as the following:
•	 Small code base: Splitting an application into multiple independent parts may significantly 
increase the size of the code base by introducing extra logic required for communication 
between the components.
•	 Application logic is still loosely defined: It is very common that parts of the application or 
the entire system go through major structural or logical changes, especially at the very early 
stages of development. This might be caused by a sudden change of requirements, priorities, 
changes in the business model, or a different approach to development. During the early stages 
of development, iterating fast can be critical not only to the development process, but also to 
the entire company.
•	 Narrow scope of the application: Not every service requires a decomposition and division 
into separate parts. Consider a service for generating random passwords – it has a single logical 
feature and, in most cases, it would be unnecessary to split it into multiple parts.
In all of the preceding cases, monolithic architecture would be a better fit for the application. However, 
at some point, services get too big to remain monolithic. Developers start experiencing the following 
issues:
•	 Large application size and slow deployments: At a certain point, an application can become 
so big that it can take minutes or even hours to build, start, or deploy.
•	 Inability to deploy a particular part of the application independently: Not being able to replace 
a part of a large application can easily become a bottleneck, slowing down the development 
and release process.
