Introduction to Microservices
8
•	 Invest in integration testing: Make sure you have comprehensive tests for the integrations 
between your microservices performing automatically.
•	 Keep backward compatibility in mind: Always remember to keep your changes backward 
compatible to ensure that new changes are safe to deploy. Additionally, use techniques such as 
versioning, which we are going to cover in the next chapter of the book.
At this point, we have covered the key aspects of microservice development, and you have learned its 
benefits and the challenges you may face. Before we proceed to the next chapter, let's cover one more 
topic to ensure we are ready for the journey into microservice development. Let's get familiar with 
the Go programming language and its role in microservice development.
Role of Go in microservice development
Over the last decade, the Go programming language has become one of the most popular languages 
for application development. There have been many factors contributing to its success, including its 
simplicity, ease of writing network applications, and an ability to easily develop parallel and concurrent 
applications. 
Additionally, the larger developer community has played a key role in raising its popularity across all 
types of developers. The Go community is welcoming to everybody, from people just starting their 
journeys into programming to seasoned experts with decades of experience building different types 
of applications.
The Go standard library provides a set of packages that can often be enough for building a complete 
web application or an entire service, sometimes without even requiring any external dependencies. 
Many developers have been fascinated by the ease of writing applications and tools performing network 
calls, data serialization and encoding, file processing, and many other types of common operations.
This simplicity, paired with fast and efficient compilation into native binaries as well as rich tooling, 
made it one of the primary languages for writing web tools and services. The high adoption of the Go 
language for web service development made it one of the primary choices for writing microservices 
across the industry.
The biggest advantages of Go for microservice development include the following:
•	 Smooth learning curve: As one of the critical aspects of application development in growing 
teams, the simplicity of the Go language helps reduce the onboarding time for new, inexperienced 
developers.
•	 Explicit error handling: While being a hot topic in the Go community, error handling in Go 
encourages explicit handling of all application errors. It aligns with one of the key principles 
of microservice development of designing applications for failure.
•	 Useful standard library: The Go standard library includes lots of packages that can be used 
in production-grade systems without requiring external solutions.
