Project structure
19
•	 Limit the usage of context for passing any metadata. You should use metadata propagation for 
truly exceptional cases, such as distributed tracing, mentioned earlier.
•	 Do not attach context to structures.
Now, as we have discussed the key recommendations for writing idiomatic Go code, we can move 
on to the next section, which is going to cover the project structure recommendations and standards 
for Go applications.
Project structure
The project structure is the foundation of and plays a major role in the readability and maintainability 
of your code. As we discussed in the previous sections, in Go projects, the structure may play a more 
important role than in other languages, because each exported name generally includes the name of 
its package. This requires you to have good and descriptive naming for your packages and directories, 
as well as the right hierarchy of your code.
While the official guidelines define some strong recommendations for naming and coding styles there 
aren’t that many rules constraining the Go project structure. Each project is unique by its nature, 
and developers are generally free to choose the way they organize the code. However, there are some 
common practices and specifics of Go package organization that we are going to cover in this section.
Private packages
In Go, all code stored inside a directory called internal can be imported and used only by packages 
stored within the same directory or one of the directories it includes. Putting code into an internal 
directory can ensure your code is not exported and used by external packages. This can be useful for 
the following different cases:
•	 Hide the details of the implementation from the user if some of the types of functions need 
to be exported.
•	 Ensure no external package relies on your types and functions, which you don’t want to expose 
widely.
•	 Remove possible unnecessary dependencies between the packages.
•	 Avoid extra refactoring and maintenance difficulties if your code is unexpectedly used by other 
developers/teams.
I have found it useful to use internal packages as a protection against unwanted dependencies. This 
plays a big role in large repositories and applications, where there is a high possibility of unexpected 
dependencies between the packages. Large code bases that don’t have a separation between private 
and public packages often suffer from an effect called spaghettification—when packages depend on 
each other in an uncontrolled and chaotic way.
