Service Discovery
60
HashiCorp Consul
HashiCorp Consul has been a pretty popular solution for service discovery for many years. Written 
in Go, this tool allows you to set up service discovery for your services and applications quite easily, 
using its clients or API.
Consul has a pretty straightforward API, including the following key endpoints:
•	 PUT /catalog/register: Register a service instance.
•	 PUT /catalog/deregister: Deregister a service instance.
•	 GET /catalog/services: Get the available instances of a service.
Client applications can access the Consul catalog either via the API or in server-side service discovery 
mode, using a DNS service.
You can learn more about Consul by checking the official website: https://consul.io.
Kubernetes
Kubernetes is a popular open source platform for running, scaling, and managing collections of 
applications, such as microservices.
One of the features of Kubernetes is the ability to register and discover the services that are running 
in it. Kubernetes provides an API for retrieving the list of network addresses of each service that is 
being updated automatically, so users can use it in client-side discovery mode. Alternatively, it allows 
its users to plug in a load balancer to use it for server-side discovery instead.
We are going to cover Kubernetes later, in Chapter 8 of this book. Now, let’s see how we can add service 
discovery to the applications we created in the previous chapter.
Adopting service discovery
In this section, we are going to illustrate how you can start using service discovery for your applications. 
We will be using the microservices we created in the previous chapter as an example. Then, you will 
learn how to add the logic responsible for service discovery to your microservice code.
When you consider enabling service discovery for your services, you have multiple questions to 
answer, such as the following:
•	 Which model would you prefer to use – client-side or server-side discovery?
•	 Which platform will you use for the deployment and orchestration of your microservices?
Answering the second question may already give you a solution – various deployment platforms, 
including Kubernetes, as well as popular clouds such as AWS, offer service discovery for your services.
