Adopting service discovery
61
If you don’t know which deployment platform you are going to use for your services and you are new 
to microservice development, you may consider client-side service discovery. The client-side discovery 
model is slightly simpler because your service directly coordinates with the service registry. Later, you 
will be able to switch to server-side service discovery, if you want.
Let’s start preparing your applications for adding service discovery logic.
Preparing the application
Let’s list what we want to achieve from our service discovery code.
•	 The ability to register a service that we are going to use on service startup
•	 The ability to deregister a service that we are going to use on service shutdown
•	 The ability to get a list of addresses of a particular service that we are going to use for making 
the calls to the other services.
•	 Set up service health monitoring so the service registry is able to remove inactive service instances
It would be great if our service discovery logic weren’t directly tied to a particular tool. It is usually 
a good practice to abstract the actual technology with a more generic interface, which allows us to 
swap implementations. We can illustrate this using an example – imagine we are using the Hashicorp 
Consul library, which returns a list of service addresses in the following form:
func Service(string, string) ([]*consul.ServiceEntry, *consul.
QueryMeta, error)
If we expose these Consul structures in our code and pass these structures around our code base, our 
service code will be heavily tied to Consul. If we ever decide to switch to another service discovery 
tool, we would need to replace not only the service discovery implementation logic but also all the 
code in which it is used.
Instead, let’s define a more generic and technology-agnostic interface. For providing the list of service 
instances, we can just return the list of URLs in the []string format.
The complete interface for our service discovery logic would be as follows:
// registry defines a service registry.
type Registry interface {
    // Register creates a service instance record in the 
registry.
    Register(ctx context.Context, instanceID string, 
serviceName string, hostPort string) error
    // Deregister removes a service instance record from the 
registry.
