Serialization
82
Apache Thrift is a combination of serialization and a communication protocol that can be used for 
both defining your data types and allowing your services to communicate with each other by passing 
them. It was initially created at Facebook but later became a community-supported open source 
project under the Apache Software Foundation.
Thrift, unlike JSON and XML, requires you to define your structures in their own format first. In our 
example, for the Metadata structure, we would need to create a file with the .thrift extension, 
including the definition in Thrift language:
struct Metadata {
  1: string id,
  2: string title,
  3: string description,
  4: string director
}
Once you have a Thrift file, you can use it with an automatic Thrift code generator to generate the code 
for most programming languages that would contain the defined structures and logic to encode and 
decode it. In addition to data structures, Thrift allows you to define Thrift services — sets of functions 
that can be called remotely. Here’s an example of a Thrift service definition:
service MetadataService {
  Metadata get(1: string id)
}
The example here defines a service called MetadataService, which provides a get function, 
returning a Metadata Thrift object. A Thrift-compatible server can act as such a Thrift service, 
processing incoming requests from the client applications — we are going to learn how to write such 
servers in Chapter 5.
Let’s explore the benefits and limitations of Apache Thrift. The benefits include the following:
•	 A smaller output size and higher encoding and decoding speed compared to XML and JSON. 
Thrift-serialized data can be 30 to 50% smaller in size than XML and JSON.
•	 The ability to define not only structures but entire services and generate code for them, allowing 
communication between the servers and their clients.
The limitations include the following:
•	 Relatively low popularity and adoption in recent years due to moving to more popular and 
efficient formats.
•	 It lacks official documentation. Thrift is a relatively complex technology, and most documentation 
is unofficial.
