Serialization
90
From the output, we can see that Protocol Buffers serialization on average took 185.7 nanoseconds, 
while JSON serialization was almost two times slower at 342.2 nanoseconds. XML serialization on 
average took 2519 nanoseconds, being more than 13 times slower than Protocol Buffers, and more 
than 7 times slower than JSON serialization. 
The benchmark is indeed interesting – it illustrates how different the average encoding speeds for 
various serialization formats are. If performance is important for your services, you should consider 
faster serialization formats to achieve a higher encoding and decoding speed.
For now, we are going to leave the generated structures in our repository. We will be using them in 
the next chapter, Chapter 5, to replace our JSON API handlers.
Now, let’s learn some best practices for using serialization.
Best practices for serialization
This section summarizes the best practices for serializing and deserializing the data. These practices 
will help you make efficient decisions for using serialization in your applications and writing your 
schema definitions in Protocol Buffers and other formats:
•	 Keeping your schema backward compatible: Avoid any changes in your data schema that 
would break any existing callers. Such changes include modifications (renaming or removal) 
of field names and types.
•	 Ensuring that data schemas are kept in sync between clients and servers: For serialization 
formats with explicit schema definitions, such as Apache Thrift, Protocol Buffers, and Apache 
Avro, you should keep clients and servers in sync with the latest schema versions.
•	 Documenting implicit details: Let the callers know any implicit details related to your data 
schema. For example, if your API does not allow an empty value of a certain field of a structure, 
include this in the comments in the schema file.
•	 Using built-in structures for representing time whenever possible: Protocol Buffers and 
some other serialization protocols provide built-in types for timestamps and durations. Taking 
Protocol Buffers as an example, having a int timestamp filed would be considered a bad 
practice. The right approach would be to use google.protobuf.Timestamp.
•	 Using consistent naming: Opt for using consistent naming in your schema files, similarly to 
your code.
•	 Following the official style guide: Get familiar with the official style guide if you are using 
a schema definition language, such as Thrift or Protocol Buffers. You can find the link to the 
official style guide for Protocol Buffers in the Further reading section below.
