Asynchronous communication basics
117
•	 The third benefit of asynchronous communication is better load balancing. Certain applications 
can have uneven request loads and are prone to sudden spikes of requests. If communication is 
synchronous, the server needs to answer every request in real time, and this can easily overload 
it. Imagine a waiter in a restaurant receiving a thousand dinner orders – such a high number 
of requests would completely overwhelm the worker, and also affect the clients.
The benefits that we just described are quite significant, and in many cases, asynchronous communication 
is the only way to perform certain types of tasks or to provide better system performance. Examples 
of problems for which asynchronous communication is a good fit include the following:
•	 Long-running processing tasks: Long-running tasks, such as video processing, are often better 
done asynchronously. The caller requesting such processing would not necessarily need to wait 
until it is completed and would eventually get notified of the final result.
•	 Send once, processed by multiple components: Certain types of messages, such as status 
reports, can be processed by multiple independent components. Imagine a system where multiple 
employees need to receive the same message – instead of sending it to each one independently, 
the message can get published to a component that can be consumed by everyone interested.
•	 High-performance sequential processing: Certain types of operations are more efficient 
when performed sequentially and/or in batches. For example, some operations, such as writes 
to HDD are often more performant when done sequentially (an example would be writing 
a very large file sequentially, without any interruptions). For such scenarios, asynchronous 
processing offers great performance improvements compared to more interactive and interruptive 
synchronous communication because the receiver of such requests can control the processing 
speed and process tasks one after another.
While the described benefits of asynchronous communication may seem appealing, it is important 
to note that it often brings some difficult challenges to developers:
•	 More complex error handling: Imagine sending a message to your friend and not receiving a 
response back. Was it because the friend did not receive the message? Did something happen 
during this time? Did the response get lost? In synchronous communication, such as a phone 
call, we would immediately know if the friend is not available and would be able to call back. 
In the case of an asynchronous scenario, we would need to think about more possible issues, 
such as the ones we described.
•	 Reliance on additional components for message delivery: Certain asynchronous communication 
use cases, such as the publisher-subscriber or message broker models described in the next 
section, require additional software for delivering messages. Such software often performs 
additional operations, such as message batching and storing, bringing additional complexity 
to the system in exchange for additional features it provides.
