Asynchronous Communication
120
The publisher-subscriber model provides a flexible solution for sending and delivering data in a system 
where messages can be processed by multiple components. Each publisher can publish their messages 
without caring about the delivery process and any difficulties in delivering messages to an arbitrary 
number (even a very large one) of receivers. Each subscriber can subscribe to the relevant messages 
and get them delivered without needing to contact the publisher directly and check if there is any new 
data to consume. The latter feature is especially useful for scenarios with low message rates, such as 
occasional notification delivery.
Now, as we have covered some high-level asynchronous communication models, let’s move on to the 
practical side of the chapter and illustrate how you can implement asynchronous communication in 
your microservices.
Using Apache Kafka for messaging
In this section, we are going to introduce you to Apache Kafka, a popular message broker system that 
we are going to use to establish asynchronous communication between our microservices. You will 
learn the basics of Kafka, how to publish messages to it, and how to consume such messages from the 
microservices we created in the previous chapters.
Apache Kafka basics
Apache Kafka is an open source message broker system that provides the ability to publish and 
subscribe to messages containing arbitrary data. Originally developed at LinkedIn, Kafka has become 
perhaps the most popular open source message broker software and is used by thousands of companies 
around the world.
In the Kafka model, a component that publishes messages is called a producer. Messages are published 
in sequential order to objects called topics. Each message in a topic has a unique numerical offset in 
it. Kafka provides APIs for consuming messages (the component for consuming messages is called 
a consumer) for the existing topics. Topics can also be partitioned to allow multiple consumers to 
consume from them (for example, for parallel data processing).
We can illustrate the Kafka data model in the following diagram:
