Preparing application code for deployments
149
•	 Production: Servers that are intended to handle user requests. 
•	 Staging: A mirror of a production environment, but is used for testing. Staging differs from 
the local/production environment due to configuration and separate data storages, which help 
to avoid any interference with production data during testing.
Production deployments can be done in canary mode—a deployment mode that performs the changes 
only on a small fraction (such as 1%) of production hosts. Canary deployments are useful for the final 
testing of new code before updating all production instances of a service.
Let’s now see how developers can configure their microservices for deployments to multiple environments.
Application configuration
In the previous section, we described the differences between various environments, such as local/
development and production. Each environment is usually configured differently—if your services 
have access to databases, each environment will generally have a separate database with different 
credentials. To enable your services to run in such environments, you would need to have multiple 
configurations of your services, one per environment.
There are two ways of configuring your services:
•	 In-place/hardcode: All required settings are stored in the service code (Go code, in our case).
•	 Separate code and configuration: Configuration is stored in separate files so that it can be 
modified independently.
Separating service code and configuration often results in better readability, which makes configuration 
changes easier. Each environment can have a separate configuration file or a set of files, allowing you to 
read, review, and update environment-specific configurations easily. Additionally, various data formats, 
such as YAML, can help to keep configuration files compact. Here’s a YAML configuration example:
mysql:
  database: ratings
kafka:
  topic: ratings
In this book, we are going to use an approach that separates application code and configuration files 
and stores the configuration in YAML format. This approach is common to many Go applications 
and can be seen in many popular open source Go projects.
