Deploying via Kubernetes
153
3.	
Run a deployment command: Kubernetes will apply the provided configuration by running 
the desired number of pods with the target application(s).
One of the benefits of Kubernetes is abstracting away all the low-level details of deployments, such 
as selecting target servers to deploy (if you have many, you need to balance their load otherwise), 
copying and extracting your files, and running health checks. In addition to this, there are some other 
useful benefits:
•	 Service discovery: Kubernetes offers a built-in service discovery API for use in applications.
•	 Rollbacks: In case there are any issues with the deployment, Kubernetes allows you to roll back 
the changes to the previous state.
•	 Automated restarts: If any pod experiences any issue, such as an application crash, Kubernetes 
will perform a restart of that pod.
Now, let’s describe how we can set up deployments of our microservices using Kubernetes.
Setting up our microservices for Kubernetes deployments
All the necessary steps for setting up deployments in Kubernetes for our three microservices are set 
out here:
1.	
The first step is to create a container image for each service. Kubernetes supports multiple 
types of containers, and Docker is currently the most popular container type. We already used 
Docker in Chapter 3 and will illustrate now how to use it for creating containers for our services.
Inside the metadata service directory, create a file called Dockerfile and add the following 
code to it:
FROM alpine:latest
 
COPY main .
COPY configs/. . EXPOSE 8081
CMD ["/main"]
In the file that we just added, we specified that to prepare the image for our container for 
the metadata service, Docker should use the alpine:latest base image. Alpine is a 
lightweight Linux distribution that has a size of just a few megabytes and is optimal for our 
services. Then, we added a command to copy the executable file called main to a container, 
copy the configs directory of the service, and expose an 8081 port so that we can accept 
incoming requests on it.
