Deployment best practices
159
Automated rollbacks
Automated rollbacks are the mechanism of automatically reverting a deployment in case there was 
a failure during it. Imagine you are making deployment of a new version of your service and that 
version has some application bug that is preventing it from starting successfully. In that case, the 
deployment process will replace your active instances of a service (if the service is already running) 
with the failing ones, making your services unavailable. Automated rollbacks are a way to detect and 
revert such bad deployments, helping you to avoid an outage in situations when your services become 
unavailable due to such issues.
Automated rollbacks are not offered by default in Kubernetes, at the time of writing this book, similar 
to many popular deployment platforms. However, this should not stop you from using this technique, 
especially if you aim to achieve high reliability of your services. The high-level idea of implementing 
automated rollbacks with Kubernetes is as follows:
•	 Perform continuous health checks of your service (we are going to cover such logic in Chapter 
12 of this book).
•	 When you detect a health issue with your service, check whether there was a recent deployment of 
your service. For example, you can do so by running the kubectl describe deployment 
command.
•	 In case there was a recent deployment and the time of it closely matches the time when the 
health check issues were detected, you can roll it back by executing this rollback command: 
kubectl rollout undo deployment <DEPLOYMENT_NAME>.
Canary deployments
As we mentioned at the beginning of the chapter, canary is a special type of deployment, where you 
update only a small fraction (1 to 3%) of instances. The idea of canary deployments is to test a new 
version of your code on a subset of production instances and validate its correctness before doing a 
regular production deployment.
We won’t cover the details of setting up canary deployments in Kubernetes, but can cover the basic ideas 
that would help you to do this once you want to enable canary deployments for your microservices, 
as set out here:
•	 Create two separate Kubernetes deployment configurations, one for canary and one for production.
•	 Specify the desired number of replicas in each configuration—if you want to run a service on 50 
pods and let canary handle 2% of traffic, set 1 replica for canary and 49 replicas for production.
•	 You may also add environment-specific suffixes to deployment names. For example, you can 
call a canary deployment of a rating service, rating-canary, and rating-production 
for the production environment.
