Integration tests
177
using in-memory implementations of service registries and repositories.
Before you write the test, it’s often helpful to write down the set of operations to be tested and determine 
the expected outputs for each step. Let’s write down the plan for our integration test:
1.	
Write metadata for an example movie using the metadata service API (the PutMetadata 
endpoint) and check that the operation does not return any errors.
2.	
Retrieve the metadata for the same movie using the metadata service API (the GetMetadata 
endpoint) and check it matches the record that we submitted earlier.
3.	
Get the movie details (which should only consist of metadata) for our example movie using 
the movie service API (the GetMovieDetails endpoint) and make sure the result matches 
the data that we submitted earlier.
4.	
Write the first rating for our example movie using the rating service API (the PutRating 
endpoint) and check the operation does not return any errors.
5.	
Retrieve the initial aggregated rating for our movie using the rating service API (the 
GetAggregatedRating endpoint) and check that the value matches the one that we just 
submitted in the previous step.
6.	
Write the second rating for our example movie using the rating service API and check that the 
operation does not return any errors.
7.	
Retrieve the new aggregated rating for our movie using the rating service API and check that 
the value reflects the last rating.
8.	
Get the movie details for our example movie and check that the result includes the updated rating.
Having this kind of plan makes it easier to write the code for the integration test and brings us to the 
last step — actually implementing it:
1.	
Create a test/integration directory and add the file called main.go with the following 
code:
package main
import (
    "context"
    "log"
    "net"
    "github.com/google/go-cmp/cmp"
    "github.com/google/go-cmp/cmp/cmpopts"
    "google.golang.org/grpc"
    "movieexample.com/gen"
