Reliability Overview
194
Reliability basics
While implementing new applications, services, or features, engineers often focus first on meeting 
various system requirements, such as implementing specific application features. The initial result of 
such work is usually some working code that correctly performs its job, such as handling some data 
processing task or serving network requests as an API endpoint. We can say that such code initially 
performs well in isolation—the implemented code produces expected outputs for the inputs we provide.
Things usually get more complex when we add more components to the system. Let’s take our movie 
service from Chapter 2 and assume that its API gets used by some external service that has millions 
of users. Our service can be implemented perfectly fine and produce the right results for various test 
inputs. Still, once we get requests from an external service, we may notice various issues. One of them 
is called denial of service (DoS)—an external service can overload our service by asking to process 
too many requests, to the extent that our service stops serving new requests. The outcome of such an 
issue can vary from minor system performance degradation to service crashes due to reaching CPU, 
file, or memory limits.
DoS is just one of the examples of things that can go wrong in a microservice environment. Assume that 
you performed a fix that limits the number of incoming requests to your service, but the fix broke the 
services calling your API because they did not expect a sudden DoS on their requests. An alternative 
scenario is a change in a service API that introduces a backward-incompatible change. This change 
is incompatible with one or multiple previously released versions of callers of your service API. As a 
result, services calling your API could experience various negative effects, up to the point that they 
would be unable to process any requests.
Let’s define the quality of a service that can be resilient in the face of unexpected failures as reliability—
the quality of operating expectedly and having explicitly defined limitations. The last clause in our 
definition of reliability makes a big difference to its meaning—it’s not enough to perform a certain 
function well. It is equally important to be explicit about the service’s limitations and what happens 
when these limitations are breached. 
In our movie service example, we would need to be explicit about multiple things, such as the following:
•	 System throughput: How many requests the service can process (for example, maximal 
requests per second)
•	 Congestion policy: How we would handle scenarios when our service is overloaded
For example, if our service can’t process more than 100 simultaneous requests per service instance, 
we could explicitly state this in the documentation to our API and reject all extra incoming requests 
by returning a special error code, such as HTTP 429 Too Many Requests. Such indication of 
system limits and explicit communication of congestion issues would be a great step toward improving 
overall system reliability by making its behavior more deterministic and, hence, reliable. 
