Achieving reliability through automation
199
The latter scenario may be especially challenging to the server due to uneven load distribution. Imagine 
that you are doing some work and getting some phone calls with extra tasks. If you responded to 
such calls and said that you were busy, you wouldn’t want to get called again immediately and asked 
to perform the same tasks again—instead, you would want the caller to call back after some time. 
Similarly, immediate retries would be suboptimal to servers experiencing congestion issues, so we 
would need to perform additional modifications to our retry logic to introduce extra delays between 
the retries so that our server does not get overloaded with immediate retries.
The technique of adding extra delays between client request retries is called backoff. Different types 
of backoff are implemented by using different delay intervals between the retry requests:
•	 Constant backoff: Each retry is performed after a constant delay.
•	 Exponential backoff: Each retry is performed after a delay that is exponentially higher than 
the previous one.
An example of exponential backoff would be a sequence of calls where the first retry would be done 
after a 100 ms delay, the second one would take a 400 ms wait, and the third retry delay would be 900 
ms. Exponential backoff is usually a better solution than constant, because it performs the next retry 
much slower than the previous ones, allowing the server to recover in case of overloading. A popular 
Go library at https://github.com/cenkalti/backoff provides an implementation of 
exponential and other types of backoff algorithms.
Backoff delay can also be modified by introducing small random changes to its duration. For example, 
the retry delay value on each step could be increased or decreased by up to 10% to better spread the 
load on the server. This optimization is called jittering. To illustrate the usefulness of jittering, assume 
multiple clients start calling the server simultaneously. If retries are performed with the same delays 
for each client, they will keep calling the server simultaneously, generating bursts of server requests. 
Adding pseudo-random offsets to retry delay intervals helps to distribute the load on a server more 
evenly, preventing possible traffic bursts from request retries.
Deadlines and timeouts
Let’s now talk about another class of communication issues related to time. When a client performs 
a request to a server, multiple possible failures may result in either a client or a server not receiving 
enough data to consider the request successful. Possible failure scenarios include the following:
•	 The client request does not reach the server due to network issues.
•	 The server gets overloaded and takes longer to respond to the client.
•	 The server processes the request, but the response does not reach the client due to network issues.
These failures can result in longer waiting times for a client. Imagine you are sending a letter to your 
relative and not getting a response back. Without additional information, you would continue waiting 
without knowing whether the letter got lost at any step or the relative simply hasn’t responded.
