Reliability Overview
200
For synchronous requests, there is a way to improve the client experience by setting a request timeout—
an interval after which the request is considered as failed in case of not receiving a successful response. 
Setting request timeouts is a good practice due to multiple reasons:
•	 Elimination of unexpected waits: If a request takes an unexpectedly long time, the client can 
stop it earlier and perform an optional retry.
•	 Ability to estimate maximum request processing time: When requests are performed with 
explicit timeouts, it is easier to calculate how long it will take until the operation returns a 
response or an error to the caller.
•	 Ability to set longer timeouts for long-running operations: Libraries used for performing 
network calls often set default request timeouts (for example, 30 seconds). Sometimes the clients 
want to set a higher value, knowing that the request may take longer to complete (for example, 
when uploading a large file to a server). Explicitly setting a higher timeout helps to prevent the 
situation of a request getting canceled due to exceeding the default timeout.
In Go, timeouts are usually propagated via the context.Context object. As we mentioned in 
Chapter 1, each I/O operation, such as a network call, accepts the context object as an argument, and 
we can set a timeout by calling the context.WithTimeout function, as shown in the following 
code snippet:
func TimeoutExample(ctx context.Context, args Args) {
    const timeout = 10 * time.Second
    ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(ctx, timeout)
    defer cancel()
    resp, err := SomeOperation(ctx, args)
}
In the preceding example, we set the timeout for the SomeOperation function to 10 seconds, so 
it should not take more than 10 seconds to complete the operation.
Setting a timeout is not the only way to limit request processing time. An alternative solution to this is 
setting a deadline—the maximal time until which the request should get processed not to be considered 
as failed. Unlike a timeout, which is set using the time.Duration structure (for example, having 
the value of 10 seconds), a deadline indicates the exact instance of time (for example, January 1, 2074, 
00:00:00). Here’s an example of using a deadline for the same operation as in the previous code example:
deadline := time.Parse(time.RFC3339, "2074-01-01T00:00:00Z")
ctx, cancel := context.WithDeadline(ctx, deadline)
defer cancel()
resp, err := SomeOperation(ctx, args)
