Achieving reliability through automation
205
Graceful shutdown
In this section, we are going to talk about the graceful handling of service shutdown events. Service 
shutdowns can be triggered by multiple events:
•	 Manual interruption of execution (for example, when a user types Ctrl + C/Cmd + C in a 
terminal that runs the service process, and the process receives a SIGINT signal from the 
operating system)
•	 Termination of execution by the operating system (for example, by SIGTERM or SIGKILL signals)
•	 Panic in service code
Generally, sudden termination of the execution of a service may result in the following negative 
consequences:
•	 Dropped requests: Incoming API requests may be dropped before they get fully processed, 
resulting in errors for the callers of the service.
•	 Connection issues: Service network connections may not be properly closed during a shutdown, 
resulting in multiple negative effects. For example, not closing a database connection may result 
in a situation called a connection leak, when the database keeps the connection allocated to 
the service instead of allowing it to be reused by another instance.
To prevent these issues, you need to ensure that your service shuts down gracefully by performing 
a set of operations that minimize any negative consequences for the service and its components. 
Performing a graceful shutdown, the service would run some extra logic before the termination, 
such as the following:
•	 Completing as many unfinished operations, such as unprocessed requests, as possible
•	 Closing all open network connections and yielding any shared resources, such as network sockets
Graceful shutdown logic for Go services is usually implemented in the following way:
1.	
The service subscribes to shutdown events by calling a Notify function of an os/
signal package.
2.	
When a service receives a SIGINT or SIGTERM event from the operating system, indicating 
that the service is about to be terminated, it performs a set of required operations for closing 
all open connections and completing all pending tasks.
3.	
Once all operations are completed, the service finishes the execution.
