Reliability Overview
208
Let’s now test the code that we just implemented. Run the rating service and then terminate it by 
pressing Ctrl + C/Cmd + C (depending on your OS). You should see the following messages:
2022/10/13 08:55:05 Received signal interrupt, attempting 
graceful shutdown
2022/10/13 08:55:05 Gracefully stopped the gRPC server
Communication of termination and interruption events is a common practice in Go microservice 
development and is an elegant way of implementing graceful shutdown logic. When designing and 
implementing your services, think in advance about possible resources that need to be closed or 
de-initialized upon the service termination, such as any network clients and connections. A graceful 
shutdown logic can prevent the negative effects of sudden service termination. It can also reduce the 
number of possible errors in your services and improve your operating experience.
At this point, we have reviewed some automation techniques to improve the reliability of our services 
and reduce the symptoms of various failure scenarios. Now, we can proceed to the next section of 
the chapter, covering another aspect of reliability work related to development processes and culture. 
Improvements to your development processes are essential to achieving high reliability in the long 
term, and the section should be useful to you by providing some valuable tips and ideas that you can 
utilize in microservice development.
Achieving reliability through development processes and 
culture
In this section, we are going to describe some techniques for achieving higher service reliability based 
on changes in the development processes and culture. You will learn how to establish the processes 
for improving and reviewing your service reliability, how to learn from any service-related issues 
and incidents efficiently, and how to measure your service reliability. We will cover the processes and 
practices that are widely used across the industry, outlining the most important ideas from each one. 
The section is going to be more theoretical than the previous one; however, it should be equally useful.
First, we are going to provide an overview of the on-call process essential for setting up a mechanism 
for monitoring issues with your services.
On-call process
When your services start handling production traffic or start serving user requests, one of your first 
reliability goals should be to detect any issues, or incidents, as early as possible. Efficient detection 
should be automatic—a program will always be much more efficient than a human in detecting most 
issues. Each automatic detection should notify one or more engineers about the incident so that the 
engineers can perform work in order to mitigate an incident.
