Achieving reliability through development processes and culture
209
The process for establishing such a mechanism for notifying engineers about service incidents is called 
on-call. This process helps ensure that at any moment in time, service incidents are acknowledged 
and addressed by the engineers responsible for the service. 
The main ideas behind the on-call process are the following:
•	 Engineers can get grouped into on-call rotations. Each engineer participating in the on-call 
process repeatedly gets assigned a continuous shift (often taking 1 week), during which they 
take responsibility for periodically handling notifications regarding service-level incidents.
•	 On-call rotation can have an escalation policy—a process of escalating incidents in case they 
remain unresolved. First, an incident gets reported to the primary on-call engineer of the 
rotation. If the primary engineer is unavailable, the incident gets reported to the secondary 
engineer, and so on.
•	 There can be a shadow role, commonly assigned to new engineers. This role does not require 
any response to the incident, but it can be used for getting familiar with the on-call process 
and subscribing to real-time incident notifications.
•	 Each incident triggers one or multiple notifications, notifying the on-call engineers about the 
issue. Each notification must be acknowledged by the responsible on-call engineer unless the 
incident self-resolves (for example, if a service stops receiving too many requests and starts 
operating normally).
•	 You can also set up an escalation policy for a rotation—a mechanism for escalating the incident 
notifications if the responsible on-call engineers don’t acknowledge them within the configured 
time. Usually, escalation policy follows the reporting chain of the engineering hierarchy—if 
no engineer acknowledges the incident, the incident first triggers a notification to the closest 
engineering manager, then to the person the manager is reporting to, and so on until it reaches 
the highest level (this can even be a CTO at some companies).
Having an on-call process is common to most technology companies and teams, and the on-call process 
is pretty similar in most companies across the industry. Some popular solutions provide mechanisms 
for triggering various types of notifications, such as SMS, emails, and even phone calls. You can also 
configure on-call rotations and assign them to different services. One of the most popular solutions 
to on-call management is PagerDuty—a platform providing a set of tools for automating on-call 
operations, as well as integrations with hundreds of services, including Slack, Zoom, and many more. 
PagerDuty provides all the features we listed earlier, allowing engineers to configure on-call rotations 
for their services and notifying them about incidents in different ways. Additionally, it provides an 
API that can be used for both accessing the incident data and triggering new incidents from the code.
We are not going to dive into the details of PagerDuty's features and integrations in this chapter—I 
suggest you check the official PagerDuty documentation on their website, https://developer.
pagerduty.com/docs. I also suggest you read Chapter 12 before establishing an on-call process 
for your services. It will help you to learn more about possible incident detection mechanisms and 
tools you can utilize in your projects.
