Summary
213
reviewing and updating the service runbooks, making sure that the incident mitigation instructions 
are accurate and up to date.
At this point, we have discussed the most important service reliability techniques. There are many 
more interesting topics to cover that are related to service reliability—some of them, related to 
incident detection, we are going to cover in Chapter 12 of the book. If you are interested in the topic, 
I strongly encourage you to read the Google Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) book, which provides 
a comprehensive guide to various reliability-related techniques. You can find the online version of 
the book by going to the following link: https://sre.google/sre-book/table-of-
contents. The practices that are described in the book are applicable to any microservice, so you 
can always use it as a reference while working on building any type of system.
Summary
In this chapter, we covered the topic of reliability, describing a set of techniques and practices that 
can help you to make your microservices more resilient to various types of failures. You have learned 
some useful techniques for automating error responses of your services and reducing the negative 
impact of various types of issues, such as service overloading and unexpected service shutdowns. 
In the final part of the chapter, we discussed various reliability techniques based on changes in engineering 
processes and culture, such as introducing the on-call and incident management processes, as well as 
performing periodic reliability drills. The knowledge that you gained from reading this chapter should 
help you to establish a solid foundation for writing reliable microservices.
In the next chapter, we are going to continue our journey into the reliability topic and focus on 
collecting service telemetry data, such as logs, metrics, and traces. Service telemetry data is the primary 
instrument for setting up service incident detection, and we will illustrate how to work with each type 
of telemetry data in your microservice code.
Further reading
If you’d like to learn more, refer to the following resources:
•	 Timeouts, retries, and backoff with jitter: https://aws.amazon.com/builders-
library/timeouts-retries-and-backoff-with-jitter
•	 Token bucket rate-limiting algorithm: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Token_bucket
•	 PagerDuty documentation: https://developer.pagerduty.com/docs
