Collecting service logs
217
•	 Anomaly detection: Automatically detect anomalies in your service behavior, such as sudden 
drops in API requests.
•	 Event correlation: Detect relationships between various types of events, such as unsuccessful 
deployments and service panics.
While observability opens lots of opportunities, it comes with the following challenges:
•	 Collecting large datasets: Real-time performance data often takes lots of space to store, 
especially if you have lots of services or if your services produce lots of data.
•	 Need for specific tooling: To collect, process, and visualize different types of data, such as logs, 
metrics, and traces, you need some extra tools. These tools often come at a price.
•	 Complex setup: Observability tooling and infrastructure are often difficult to configure. To 
access all data coming from multiple services, you need to set up the proper data collection, 
aggregation, data retention policies, and many more strategies.
We are going to describe how to work with each type of telemetry data that you can collect in your 
microservices. For each type of data, we will provide some usage examples and describe the common 
ways of setting up the tooling for working with it. First, let’s proceed to look at service log collection.
Collecting service logs
Logging is a technique that involves collecting real-time application performance data in the form of 
a time-ordered set of messages called a log. Here is an example of a service log:
2022/06/06 23:00:00 Service started
2022/06/06 23:00:01 Connecting to the database
2022/06/06 23:00:11 Unable to connect to the database: timeout 
error
Logs can help us understand what was happening in the application at a particular moment in time. 
As you can see in the preceding example, the service started at 11 P.M. and began connecting to the 
database a second later, finally logging a timeout error 10 seconds later.
Logs can provide lots of valuable insights about the component that emitted them, such as the following:
•	 Order of operations: Logs can help us understand the logical sequence of operations performed 
by a service by showing when each operation took place.
•	 Failed operations: One of the most useful applications of logs is the ability to see the list of 
errors recorded by a service.
•	 Panics: If a service experiences an unexpected shutdown due to panic, a log can provide the 
relevant information, helping troubleshoot the issue.
