Collecting Service Telemetry Data
228
Periodically review your log data
Once you start collecting your service logs, it is important to periodically review them. Look out for 
the following cases:
•	 Make sure there is no PII data in logs: Personally identifiable information (PII), such as 
full names and SSNs, falls under many regulations and generally must not be stored in logs. 
Make sure that no component, such as an API handler or a repository component, emits any 
such data, even for debugging.
•	 Check that your service doesn’t emit extra debug data: Sometimes, developers log some 
additional data, such as request fields, to debug various issues. Check that no service is 
continuously emitting too many debug messages during a prolonged period, polluting the logs 
and using too much disk space.
Set up appropriate log retention
Log data often takes a lot of space to store. If it keeps growing in size without any additional actions 
being taken, you may end up using all your disk space and having to urgently clean up the old records. 
To prevent this, various log storage solutions allow you to configure retention policies for your data. 
For example, you can configure your log storage to keep the logs for some services for up to a few years, 
while limiting some other services to just a few days, depending on the requirements. Additionally, you 
can set some size constraints so that the logs of your services don’t exceed a predefined size threshold.
Ensure you set retention policies for all types of your logs, avoiding situations when you need to clean 
up unneeded log records manually.
Identify the message source in logs
Imagine that you are viewing your system logs and notice the following error event:
{"level":"error", "time":"2022-09-04T20:10:10+1:00","message":"
Request timed out"}
Can you understand the problem described in this event? The log record includes the Request 
timed out error message and has the error level, but it does not provide any meaningful context 
to us. Without any additional context, we can’t easily understand the problem that caused the log event.
Providing the context of any log message is crucial for making it easy to work with the logs. This is 
especially important in a microservice environment, where similar operations can be performed by 
multiple services or components. It should always be easy to understand each message and have some 
reference to the component it is coming from. In this section, we already mentioned the practice of 
including some additional information, such as the name of the component, in a log event. Such 
metadata would generally include the following:
