Collecting Service Telemetry Data
232
Prometheus supports three types of metrics – counters, gauges, and histograms. It stores each metric 
as a time series, similarly to the model that we described at the beginning of the Collecting service 
metrics section. Each metric contains the value, additional tags, called labels, and a name that can 
be used for identifying it.
Once the data gets into the Prometheus time series storage, it is available for querying via its query 
language, called PromQL. PromQL allows us to fetch time series data using various functions that 
allow us to easily filter or exclude certain name and label combinations. The following is an example 
of a PromQL query:
http_requests_total{environment="production",method!="GET"}
In this example, the query fetches time series with the http_requests_total name, a label 
that contains the environment key and production value, and any value of a method label that is not 
equal to GET.
There is an official Prometheus Go client on GitHub that provides various mechanisms to get the metrics 
data into Prometheus, as well as to execute the PromQL queries. You can access it here: https://
github.com/prometheus/client_golang.
The documentation for instrumenting Go applications for using Prometheus can be found at the 
following link: https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/go-application.
Graphite
Graphite is another popular monitoring tool that offers metric collection, aggregation, and querying 
functionality that is similar to Prometheus. Although it has been among the oldest service monitoring 
tools in the industry, it remains an extremely powerful instrument for working with service metric data.
A typical Graphite installation consists of three main components:
•	 Carbon: A service that listens for time series data
•	 Whisper: A time series database
•	 Graphite-web: A web interface and an API for accessing the metrics data
Graphite offers a quick integration with a data visualization tool called Grafana, which we are going to 
cover in Chapter 13 of this book. You can read more details about Graphite on its website: https://
graphiteapp.org.
Now, let’s move on to the next section, where we will describe the popular libraries for emitting 
service metrics.
