Collecting Service Telemetry Data
238
visualize them. Let’s look at the following example, which illustrates a distributed tracing use case 
known as call analysis:
Figure 11.2 – Tracing visualization example
Here, you can see the execution of a single GetMovieDetails request for our movie service. The 
data provides some insights into the operation’s execution:
•	 Soon after the request starts, two parallel calls come from the movie service; one to the metadata 
service and the other to the rating service.
•	 The call to the metadata service takes 100 milliseconds to complete.
•	 The call to the rating service takes 1,100 milliseconds to complete, spanning almost the entire 
request processing time.
The data that we just extracted provided us with lots of valuable information for analyzing the movie 
service’s performance. First, it helped us understand how an individual request was handled by the 
movie service, as well as which sub-operations it performed. We can also see the duration of each 
operation and find out which one was slowing down the entire request. By using this data, we could 
troubleshoot endpoint performance issues, finding which components make a significant impact on 
request processing.
In our example, we showed the interaction between just three services, but tracing tools allow us 
to analyze the behavior of systems that use tens and even hundreds of services simultaneously. The 
following are some other use cases that make tracing a powerful tool for production debugging:
•	 Error analysis: Tracing allows us to visualize the errors on complex call paths, such as chains 
of calls spanning lots of different services.
•	 Call path analysis: Sometimes, you may investigate issues in systems you are not very familiar 
with. Tracing data helps you visualize the call path of various operations, helping you understand 
the logic of the services without requiring you to analyze their code.
•	 Operation performance breakdown: Tracing allows us to see the duration of individual steps 
of a long-running operation.
