Tracing
239
Let’s describe the tracing data model so that you can get familiar with its common terminology. The 
core element of tracing is a span – a record representing some logical operation, such as a service 
endpoint call. Each span has the following properties:
•	 Operation name
•	 Start time
•	 End time
•	 An optional set of tags providing some additional metadata related to the execution of the 
associated operation
•	 An optional set of associated logs
Spans can be grouped into hierarchies to model relationships between different operations. For example, 
in Figure 11.2, our GetMovieDetails span included two child spans, representing GetMetadata 
and GetAggregatedRating operations.
Let’s explore how we can collect and use tracing data in our Go applications.
Tracing tools
There are various tools for distributed tracing in a microservice environment. Among the most popular 
ones is Jaeger, which we will review in this section.
Note
There are multiple observability libraries and tools available for developers, including libraries 
for trace collection. To standardize the data model and make data interchangeable, there is an 
OpenTelemetry project that contains the specification of the tracing data model. You can get 
familiar with the project on its website: https://opentelemetry.io.
Jaeger is an open source distributed tracing tool that provides mechanisms for collecting, aggregating, 
and visualizing the tracing data. It offers a simple but highly flexible setup and a great user interface for 
accessing trace data. This is the reason why it quickly became one of the most popular observability 
tools across the industry.
Jaeger is compatible with the OpenTelemetry specification, so it can be used in combination with any 
clients implementing the tracing specification, such as the Go SDK (https://opentelemetry.
io/docs/instrumentation/go/). The OpenTelemetry SDK is currently the recommended 
way of emitting trace data from applications, so we are going to use it in our examples throughout 
this section.
