Tracing
241
•	 Report the data on distributed operations: For each traceable operation – an operation spanning 
multiple components, such as network requests or database queries – an instrumented service 
should report spans. The report should contain the operation name, start time, and end time.
•	 Facilitate context propagation: The service should explicitly propagate context throughout 
the execution (if you are confused by this, please read the following paragraphs – this is the 
main trick behind distributed tracing!).
We already defined a span earlier in this chapter, so let’s move to the second requirement for service 
instrumentation. What is context propagation and how do we perform it in the Go microservice code?
Context propagation is a technique that involves explicitly passing an object, called a context, into 
other functions in the form of an argument. The context may contain arbitrary metadata, so passing 
it to another function helps propagate it further. That is, each function down the stream can either 
add new metadata to the context or access the metadata that already exists in it.
Let’s illustrate context propagation via a diagram:
Figure 11.4 – Context propagation example
In the previous flow chart, there is an HTTP request coming from Service A to Service B to process a 
payment. Service A includes an additional HTTP header called ctx.reqId for the request to pass 
the request identifier. Service B calls Service C to check the user details to verify whether the user 
is eligible for making a payment. Then, Service B passes the ctx.reqId header further to Service 
C so that all services can record the identifier of the request, for which they perform the operations.
The example that we just provided illustrates context propagation between three services. This is 
achieved by including specific HTTP headers in requests, which provide additional metadata for 
request processing. There are multiple ways of propagating the data when executing various operations. 
We will start by looking at the regular Go function calls.
We covered Go context propagation in Chapter 2 and mentioned the context package, which provides 
a type called context.Context. Passing the context between two Go functions of a single service 
is as easy as calling another function with an additional argument, as shown here:
func ProcessRequest(ctx context.Context, ...) {
    return ProcessAnotherRequest(ctx, ...)
}
