Summary
249
We just manually instrumented our in-memory metadata repository for emitting the trace data on 
its primary operations, Get and Put. Now, each call to these functions should create a span in the 
captured trace, allowing us to see when and how long each operation is being executed.
Let’s test our newly added code. Restart the metadata service and make a new grpcurl request to 
the movie service provided previously. If you check for new traces in Jaeger, you should see the new 
one, with an additional span:
Figure 11.8 – Jaeger trace view with an additional repository span
Notice the last span in the trace view, representing the Repository/Get operation. It is the result 
of our change. Now, we can see the database operations on our traces. You can go ahead and update 
the rating service repository by including similar logic – follow the preceding instructions, and you 
should be able to make it work in the same way that we just did for the metadata service.
When should you manually add span data to your functions? I would suggest doing this for each 
operation involving network calls, I/O operations (such as writing and reading from files), database 
writes and reads, and any other calls that can take a substantial amount of time. I would personally 
say that any function that takes more than 50 ms to complete is a good candidate for tracing.
At this point, we have provided a high-level overview of Go tracing techniques, and this marks an 
end to our journey into telemetry data. In the next few chapters, we will continue our explorations 
into other fields, such as dashboarding, system-level performance analysis, and some advanced 
observability techniques.
Summary
In this chapter, we covered observability by describing various techniques for analyzing the real-time 
performance of Go microservices and covering the main types of service telemetry data, such as logs, 
metrics, and traces. You learned about some of the best practices for performing logging, metric 
collection, and distributed tracing. We demonstrated how you can instrument your Go services to 
collect the telemetry data, as well as how to set up the tooling for distributed tracing. We also provided 
some examples of tracing the requests spanning three of the services that we implemented earlier in 
this book.
