Advanced Topics
268
Profiling Go services
In this section, we are going to review a technique called profiling, which involves collecting real-time 
performance data of a running process, such as a Go service. Profiling is a powerful technique that 
can help you analyze various types of service performance data:
•	 CPU usage: Which operations used the most CPU power and what was the distribution of 
CPU usage among them?
•	 Heap allocation: Which operations used heap (dynamic memory allocated in Go applications) 
and what amount of memory was used?
•	 Call graph: In which order were service functions executed?
Profiling may help you in different situations:
•	 Identifying CPU-intensive logic: At some point, you may notice that your service is consuming 
most of your CPU power. To understand this problem, you can collect the CPU profile – a 
graph showing the CPU usage of various service components, such as individual functions. 
Components that consume too much CPU power may indicate various issues, such as inefficient 
implementations or code bugs.
•	 Capturing the service memory footprint: Similar to high CPU consumption, your service may 
be using too much memory (for example, to allocate too much data to the heap), resulting in 
occasional service crashes due to out-of-memory panics. Performing memory profiling may 
help you analyze the memory usage of various parts of your service and find components that 
have unexpectedly high memory usage.
Let’s illustrate how to profile Go services using the pprof tool, which is a part of the Go SDK. To visualize 
the results of the tool, you will need to install the Graphviz library: https://graphviz.org/.
We will use the metadata service that we implemented in Chapter 2 as an example. Open the metadata/
cmd/main.go file and add the flag package to the imports block. Then, add the following code 
to the beginning of the main function, immediately after the logger initialization:
simulateCPULoad := flag.Bool("simulatecpuload",
    false,"simulate CPU load for profiling")
    flag.Parse()
    if *simulateCPULoad {
        go heavyOperation()
    }
go func() {
    if err := http.ListenAndServe("localhost:6060", nil);
