Advanced Topics
282
An example of the ownership metadata that we just described is as follows:
ownership:
    rating-service:
        accountable: example@somecompany.com
            support:
                slack: rating-service-support-group
                    oncall:
                        pagerduty_rotation:SOME_ROTATION_ID
Our example is defined in YAML format, though it may be preferable to store this data in some 
system that would allow us to query or modify it via an API. This way, you can automatically submit 
new ownership changes (for example, when people leave the company and you want to reassign the 
ownership automatically). I would also suggest making the ownership data mandatory for all services. 
To enforce this, you can establish a service creation process that will request the ownership data before 
developers provision new services.
Now that we’ve discussed service ownership, let’s move on to the next section, where we will describe 
the basics of Go microservice security.
Securing microservice communication with JWT
In this section, we are going to review some basic concepts of microservice security, such as authentication 
and authorization. You will learn how to implement such logic in Go using a popular JSON Web 
Token (JWT) protocol.
Let’s start with one of the primary aspects of security: authentication. Authentication is the process 
of verifying someone’s identity, such as via user credentials. When you log into some system, such as 
Gmail, you generally go through the authentication process by providing your login details (username 
and password). The system that performs authentication performs verification by comparing the 
provided data with the existing records it stores. Verification can take one or multiple steps: some 
types of authentication, such as two-factor authentication, require some additional actions, such as 
verifying access to a phone number via SMS.
A successful authentication often results in granting the caller access to some resources, such as user 
data (for example, user emails in Gmail). Additionally, the server performing this authentication may 
provide a security token to the caller that can be used on subsequent calls to skip the verification process.
Another form of access control, known as authorization, involves specifying access rights to various 
resources. Authorization is often performed to check whether a user has permission to perform a 
certain action, such as viewing a specific admin page. Authorization is often performed by using a 
security token that was obtained during authentication, as illustrated in the following diagram:
