Advanced Topics
288
Let’s describe some highlights of the provided example:
•	 We use the jwt.Parse function to parse the token and validate it. We return an error if the 
signature algorithm does not match HMAC-SHA256, which we used previously.
•	 The parsed token contains the Claims field, which contains the claims from the token payload
•	 We use the username claim from the token payload in our function. Once we successfully 
parse the token and verify that it is valid, we can assume that the information in its payload 
has been securely passed to us and can trust it.
Now that we have provided examples of Go authentication and authorization using JWTs, let’s list 
some best practices for using JWTs to secure microservice communication:
•	 Set a token expiration time: When issuing JWTs, it is useful to set the token expiration time (the 
exp JWT claim field) to avoid situations where users use old authorization records. By having 
an expiration time set in each token payload, you can verify it against authorization requests. 
For example, when a user authenticates as a system administrator, you can set a short token 
expiration time (for example, a few hours) to avoid situations where a former administrator 
can still perform critical actions in the system.
•	 Include the token issuance time: Additional metadata, such as the token issuance time (the 
ist JWT claim field), can be useful in many practical situations. For example, if you identify 
a security breach that happened at a certain point in time, you can invalidate all access tokens 
that were issued before that moment by using the token issuance time metadata.
•	 Use JWTs with HTTPS instead of HTTP: The HTTPS protocol encrypts request metadata, 
such as authorization request headers, preventing various types of security attacks. An example 
of such a security attack is a man-in-the-middle attack, which is when some third party (such 
as a hacker trying to obtain a user’s access token) captures network traffic to extract JWTs 
from request headers.
•	 Prefer standard JWT claim fields to custom ones: When including metadata in the JWT 
payload, make sure that there is no standard field for the same purpose. You can find a list 
of standard JWT claim fields at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON_Web_
Token#Standard_fields.
The https://jwt.io/ website contains some additional tips on using JWTs, as well as an online 
tool for encoding and decoding JWTs, that you can use to debug your service communication.
