21
2.3
Microservice architecture
Let’s look at how we can use command channel notation: asynchronous communication
that needs extra information in events to decide what to do next. In addition to the
fields that form the actual data, a particular field, called a replyTo channel, is injected
so that the consumer service can send the result back to that channel. It is also best
practice to add some correlation ID to these events to see the whole picture of a spe-
cific series of events, as shown in figure 2.4.
This type of communication is widely used in another microservice communication
pattern called an orchestration-based saga. Let’s look at this pattern to see how data
consistency is guaranteed in a microservice architecture.
2.3.4
Orchestrator-based saga
Let’s rework the Order service’s creation flow to create an order saga using an
orchestration-based saga pattern. An orchestration-based saga consists of an orchestrator
and participants, and the orchestrator tells participants what to do. The orchestrator
can communicate with participants using a command channel or request/response
style. It connects participants individually to tell them to execute their local transactions
and decides the next step based on this response.
 Whenever you send a create order request to the Order service, it initiates a saga
responsible for running a series of steps to complete the operations. When it calls the
Payment service to charge the customer for that specific order, it can return a success
or a failure. If it returns a success, the create order saga continues with the next step,
shipping, in our case. If it fails in the Payment service, the saga runs a compensation
transaction to undo the operation, which is a refund in this step. If the create order saga
runs all the steps successfully, the order status will be saved as succeeded. Remember
Order
Payment command channel
Create order reply channel
Payment
{
"data":{
 "customer_id":435,
 "product_id":123
},
"reply_to":"order_events",
"correlation_id":"12-423-233"
}
{
 "data":{
    "bill_id":5535,
  },
 "correlation_id":"12-423-233"
}
Figure 2.4
The Order service sends an event to the payment command channel after the local transaction. 
The Payment service charges the customer and sends the ID of the bill, which was created after successful 
payment, back to the create order reply channel, which is already specified in the Order event.
