15
2.1
Monolithic architecture
decomposed into services based on their business capabilities. This decomposition
enables the deployment of each service independently, which we will see in detail in
chapter 8. Interservice communication stability is imperative to providing data consis-
tency among services. This chapter will show how important gRPC is for interservice
communication.
2.1
Monolithic architecture
In monolithic architecture, the different components of a monolithic application are
combined into a single-tiered and unified software application that can contain a user
interface, a server, and database modules that are all managed in one place. Mono-
lithic architecture is especially helpful when developing the initial version of a prod-
uct, as it helps you get familiar with business domains without having to tackle
nonfunctional challenges. However, it is suggested that you assess your product peri-
odically to understand whether it is the right time to move to microservice architec-
ture. Now that we know what monolithic architecture looks like, let’s look at its pros
and cons.
2.1.1
Development
All modern IDEs are designed to support monolithic applications. For example, you can
open a multimodule Maven project in IntelliJ IDEA (https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/)
or create a modular Go project with GoLand (https://www.jetbrains.com/go/) that you
can easily open and navigate within the codebase.
 However, problems can arise as your codebase grows. For example, suppose you
have many modules within a monolithic application, and you try to open them simul-
taneously. In that case, it is possible to overload the IDE, which negatively affects pro-
ductivity; it also may not be necessary to open them all if you don’t need some of them. 
 Additionally, if you do not have proper isolation for your test cases, you may run all
the tests any time you make a small change in your codebase. The bigger the code-
base, the longer the compile and testing time. 
2.1.2
Deployment
Deploying a monolithic application means copying a standalone package or folder
hierarchy to the server or a container runtime. However, monoliths may be an obstacle
to frequent deployments in continuous deployment because they are hard to deploy
and test in a reasonable time interval. You need to deploy the entire application, even
if you introduce just a small change to a specific component. For example, say that we
introduced a small change in the newsletter component responsible for serving the
newsletter, and we want to test and deploy it to production. We would need to run all
the tests, even though we haven’t changed anything in other components, such as pay-
ment, order, and so on. In the same way, we need to build the system to generate one
artifact, even though the changes are only in the newsletter component.
