16
CHAPTER 2
gRPC meets microservices
 However, deploying a monolithic application might have more significant prob-
lems, especially if multiple teams share this application. Flaky tests and broken func-
tionalities other teams introduce may interrupt the entire deployment, and you may
want to revert it.
2.1.3
Scaling
Monolithic applications can be quickly scaled by putting them behind a load balancer,
which enables client requests to be proxied to downstream monolithic applications in
physical servers or to container runtimes. However, it may not make sense from a cost
perspective because those applications are exact copies of each other, even if you
don’t need all the components to be scaled at the same priority level. Let’s look at a
simple example to better understand this utilization problem.
 Let’s say that you have a monolithic application that needs 16 GB of memory, and
the most critical out of 10 modules is customer service. When you scale this monolithic
application by 2, you will end up with 32 GB of memory allocation. Let’s say that the
custom module needs 2 GB of memory to run efficiently. Wouldn’t it be better to scale
just the customer module that needs an extra 2 GB of memory by 2 instead of 16 GB?
 Distributing monolithic application modules to different teams for fast feature
implementation is another challenging scaling problem. Once you decide to use
monolithic architecture, you commit to the technology stack long term. Layers in
monolithic applications are tightly coupled in-process calls developed with the same
technology for interoperability. As a developer or architect, it would be harder to try
another technology stack (once one became available). Let’s look at the driving fac-
tors to scaling next.
2.2
Scale cube
Plenty of driving factors can force you to change your architecture, and scalability is
one of them, for performance reasons. A scale cube is a three-dimensional scalability
model of an application. Those dimensions are X-axis scaling, Y-axis scaling, and Z-axis
scaling, as shown in figure 2.1.
2.2.1
X-axis scaling
X-axis scaling consists of running multiple copies of the same application behind a
load balancer. In Kubernetes, load balancing is handled by Service resources
(http://mng.bz/x4Me), which proxy requests to available backend instances that live
in Pod resources (https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/), which we
will see in chapter 8 in detail. Those instances share the load, so if there are N copies,
every instance can handle 1/N of the load. Some of the main drawbacks of this scaling
model are that since each copied instance has access to all data, the instances need
more memory than required and that there is no advantage to reducing the complex-
ity of growing the codebase.
