18
CHAPTER 2
gRPC meets microservices
They are focused on business capabilities. 
Each service or set of services can be easily assigned to a dedicated team for
code ownership.
There is no need for long-term commitment to the technology stack. 
If one of the services fails, other services can continue to be used.
First, you must decide if microservice architecture is well suited for your product archi-
tecture. As said previously, starting with monolithic architecture is a best practice because
it allows you to understand your business capabilities. Once you start having scalability
problems, less productive development, or longer release life cycles, you can reassess
your environment to see if functional decomposition is a good fit for your application.
Once you decide to use microservice architecture, you might have independently scal-
able services, small projects that contain specific context during development only, and
faster deployments due to faster test verification and small release artifacts.
 Let’s assume you are familiar with your business model and know how to decompose
your application into small services. You will have other challenges not visible in mono-
lithic applications, such as handling data consistency and interservice communication.
2.3.1
Handling data consistency
Having consistent data is essential for almost any kind of application. In monolithic
architecture, data consistency is generally ensured by transactions. A transaction is a
series of actions that should be completed successfully; all operations are automatically
rolled back if even one action fails. To have consistent data, the transaction begins first,
actual business logic is executed, and then the transaction is committed for a successful
case or rolled back in case of failure. As an example, let’s assume that once Order
:create() method is executed, it calls a series of actions, such as Payment:create() and
Shipping:start(). If both Payment and Shipping operations succeed, it will successfully
commit Order status as SUCCESS. Likewise, if the Shipping operation fails, it rolls back the
Payment operation and marks the Order operation as FAILED (see figure 2.2).
 A typical transaction can be expressed with the steps begin and commit/rollback,
during which you begin a transaction and execute the actual operation; then, you may
end up committing data to the data store or rolling back the entire operation. Now
that we understand that data consistency can be easily handled in monolithic architec-
ture, let’s look at how it is handled in microservice architecture.
2.3.2
Saga pattern
Transactions are a critical part of an application responsible for maintaining data con-
sistency. In a monolithic application, there is a single data source in the same applica-
tion, but once you switch to microservices architecture, the data state is spread across
services. Each of the services has its own data store, which means a single transaction
cannot handle the data’s consistency. To have data consistency in a distributed system,
you have two options: a two-phase commit (2PC) and saga. 2PC coordinates all the
processes that form distributed atomic transactions and determines whether they
