5
Solving modern programming challenges with Go
Channels help to solve this problem by providing a pattern that makes data safe from
concurrent modification. Channels help to enforce the pattern that only one gorou-
tine should modify the data at any time. You can see an example of this flow in
figure 1.3, where channels are used to send data between several running goroutines.
Imagine an application where many different processes need to know about or modify
data sequentially. Using goroutines and channels, you can model this process safely. 
 In figure 1.3 you see three goroutines and two unbuffered channels. The first gor-
outine passes a data value through the channel to a second goroutine that’s already
waiting. The exchange of the data between both goroutines is synchronized, and once
the hand-off occurs, both goroutines know the exchange took place. After the second
goroutine performs its tasks with the data, it then sends the data to a third goroutine
that’s waiting. That exchange is also synchronized, and both goroutines can have
guarantees the exchange has been made. This safe exchange of data between gorou-
tines requires no other locks or synchronization mechanisms.
 It’s important to note that channels don’t provide data access protection between
goroutines. If copies of data are exchanged through a channel, then each goroutine
has its own copy and can make any changes to that data safely. When pointers to the
data are being exchanged, each goroutine still needs to be synchronized if reads and
writes will be performed by the different goroutines. 
1.1.3
Go’s type system
Go provides a flexible hierarchy-free type system that enables code reuse with minimal
refactoring overhead. It’s still object-oriented development, but without the tradi-
tional headaches. If you’ve ever spent a week planning your abstract classes and inter-
faces in a complex Java or C++ program, you’ll appreciate the simplicity of Go’s type
system. Go developers simply embed types to reuse functionality in a design pattern
called composition. Other languages use composition, but it’s often deeply tied to
inheritance, which can make it complicated and difficult to use. In Go, types are com-
posed of smaller types, which is in contrast to traditional inheritance-based models. 
 In addition Go has a unique interface implementation that allows you to model
behavior, rather than model types. You don’t need to declare that you’re implementing
Channel
Data
Channel
Data
Goroutine
Goroutine
Goroutine
Figure 1.3
Using channels to safely 
pass data between goroutines
