7
Hello, Go
provides a simple way to declare that your type has data to be read in a way that other
functions in the standard library understand. Here’s the definition:
type Reader interface {
Read(p []byte) (n int, err error)
}
To write a type that implements the io.Reader interface, you only need to implement
a Read method that accepts a slice of bytes and returns an integer and possible error. 
 This is a radical departure from the interface systems used in other object-oriented
programming languages. Go’s interfaces are smaller and more aligned with single
actions. In practice, this allows significant advantages in code reuse and composability.
You can implement an io.Reader on nearly any type that has data available, and then
pass it to any Go function that knows how to read from io.Reader. 
 The entire networking library in Go is built using the io.Reader interface, because
it allows it to separate the network implementation required for each different net-
work operation from the functionality of your application. It makes interfaces fun, ele-
gant, and flexible. That same io.Reader enables simple operations with files, buffers,
sockets, and any other data source. Using a single interface allows you to operate on
data efficiently, regardless of the source. 
1.1.4
Memory management
Improper memory management causes applications to crash and leak memory, and
even crash the operating system. Go has a modern garbage collector that does the
hard work for you. In other systems languages, like C or C++, you need to allocate a
piece of memory before you can use it, and then free it when you’re done. If you fail
to do either of these correctly, you’ll have program crashes or memory leaks. It isn’t
always easy to track a piece of memory when it’s no longer needed; threads and heavy
concurrency make it even harder. When you write code with garbage collection in
mind, Go’s garbage collection adds little overhead to program execution time, but
reduces development effort significantly. Go takes the tedium out of programming
and leaves the bean counting to the accountants. 
1.2
Hello, Go
It’s much easier to get the feel of a programming language by seeing it in action. Let’s
look at the traditional Hello World! application written in Go:
package main
import "fmt"
func main(){
fmt.Println("Hello World!")
}
Go programs are 
organized as packages.
The import statement allows you to use external 
code. The fmt package provided by the standard 
library allows you to format and output data.
The main function is what gets executed when 
you run your application—just like in C.
