4
CHAPTER 1
Getting into Go
are developed using libraries. Libraries and their versions are managed differently,
thanks to solutions to disk-space problems that hampered this in the past. 
 The way infrastructure and software are delivered has changed. Using colocated
servers, managing your own hardware, or getting simple virtual private servers used to
be the norm. Standing up a service at scale often meant you needed an investment in
running your own hardware, including load balancers, servers, and storage. Getting
everything ordered, assembled, and connected to the world would take weeks or
months. Now it’s available in a matter of seconds or minutes via the cloud.
 This chapter introduces the Go programming language for those not already
familiar with it. In this chapter, you’ll learn about the language, the toolchain that
accompanies it, where Go fits into the landscape of languages, and how to install Go
and get it running.
1.1
What is Go?
Go, sometimes referred to as golang to make it easier to find on the web, is a statically
typed and compiled open source programming language initially developed by
Google. Robert Griesemer, Rob Pike, and Ken Thompson were attempting to create a
language for modern systems programming that solved real-world problems they
encountered while building large systems at scale.
 Instead of attempting to attain theoretical pureness, these designers engineered
Go around real-world practical situations. It’s inspired by a host of languages that
came before it, including C, Pascal, Smalltalk, Newsqueak, C#, JavaScript, Python,
Java, and many others.
 Go isn’t the typical statically typed and compiled language. The static typing has
features that make it feel dynamic, and the compiled binaries have a runtime that
includes garbage collection. The design of the language took into account the types
of projects that Google would need to use it for: large codebases operating at scale
and being developed by large developer teams.
 At its core, Go is a programming language defined by a specification that can be
implemented by any compiler. The default implementation is shipped via the go tool.
But Go is more than a programming language. As figure 1.1 illustrates, layers are built
on top of the language.
 Developing applications requires more than a programming language—for exam-
ple, testing, documentation, and formatting. Each of these areas needs tools to sup-
port it. The go tool that’s used to compile applications also provides functionality to
support these elements. It’s a toolchain for application development. One of the most
notable aspects of the toolchain is package management. Out of the box, the pro-
gramming language Go and the go toolchain provide for packages. A built-in package
system, along with a common toolchain for the essential elements of development,
has enabled an ecosystem to form around the programming language.
 One of the defining characteristics of Go is its simplicity. When Griesemer, Pike, and
Thompson were originally designing the language, a feature didn’t go in until all three
