19
Go in the vast language landscape
contains the Go runtime, all the imported packages, and the entire application—
everything needed to run the program. Java takes a different approach. With Java, you
have a runtime installed on the operating system. Java applications are packaged into
a file that can be run on any system with the runtime. The applications need to be exe-
cuted in a compatible runtime version.
 These differing approaches, depicted in figure 1.5, have practical applications.
Deploying a Go application to a server entails deploying the one file. Deploying a Java
application requires installing and maintaining Java on the system along with deploy-
ing the application.
Another key difference between Java and Go has to do with how applications are exe-
cuted. Go programs are compiled into a system binary and executed by the operating
system. Java applications are executed in a virtual machine (VM) typically containing a
just-in-time (JIT) compiler. A JIT can look at how the code is executing in context and
optimize it accordingly.
 This raises an important question: is code running a VM with a JIT faster than a
compiled binary? The answer isn’t straightforward because it depends on the JIT, the
code being executed, and more. In tests comparing similar functionality side by side,
no clear-cut winner emerges.
1.3.3
Python, PHP, and Go
Python and PHP are two of the most popular dynamic languages in the world. Python
has become one of the most popular languages taught and used in universities. It can
be used for a wide variety of purposes, from building cloud applications to websites to
command-line utilities. PHP is the most popular programming language used to build
websites with a focus on the web. Although these two languages have many differ-
ences, they have a few similarities that highlight some of the ways Go works.
Java application
Java runtime
Operating system
Go application
Operating system
A Java application is compiled into a file that can
be executed on any system with a Java runtime.
A Java runtime, known as the Java Runtime
environment (JRE), needs to be installed on a
server or system to run a Java application.
A Go application is compiled for an operating
system and deployed to a server or system to run
it. There is no runtime dependency that needs to
be installed on the system.
Figure 1.5
Java and Go running in an operating system
