9
Noteworthy aspects of Go
This example shows how to print the body of a simple HTTP GET request. The HTTP
client can go far beyond this to deal with proxies, perform TLS handling, set headers,
handle cookies, create client objects, and even swap out the transport layer altogether.
 Creating an HTTP server with Go is a common task. What Go provides in the stan-
dard library is powerful enough to operate at scale, easy to get started with, and flexi-
ble enough to handle complex applications. Chapter 3 is dedicated to getting up and
running with an HTTP server.
HTML
If you’re working with web servers, you’re likely going to work with HTML as well. The
html and html/template packages provide a great start to generating web pages.
Whereas the html package deals with escaping and unescaping HTML, the html/
template package deals with creating reusable HTML templates. The security model
for handling the data is documented, and helper functions exist for working with
HTML, JavaScript, and more. The template system is extensible, making it an ideal
base for more-complicated functionality, while providing a good set of functionality
for anyone to get started.
CRYPTOGRAPHY
Cryptography has become a common component of an application, whether you’re
dealing with hashes or encrypting sensitive information. Go provides the common
functionality including MD5, multiple versions of Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA),
Transport Layer Security (TLS), Data Encryption Standard (DES), Triple Data Encryp-
tion Algorithm (TDEA), Advanced Encryption Standard (AES, formerly known as Rijn-
dael), Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code (HMAC), and many others.
Additionally, a cryptographically secure random number generator is provided.
DATA ENCODING
When you share data between systems, an immediate concern is encoding. Did the
data come in with base64 encoding? Does JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) or
Extensible Markup Language (XML) data need to be turned into a local object? These
are common situations, especially in our modern networked world.
 Go was designed with encoding in mind. Internally, Go is entirely handled as
UTF-8. This should be no surprise, as the creators of UTF-8 also created Go. But not
everything passed around between systems is in UTF-8, and you have to deal with data
formats that add meaning to the text. To handle the transitions and manipulations,
Go has packages and interfaces. The packages provide features such as the ability to
turn a JSON string into instantiated objects, and the interfaces provide a way to switch
between encodings or add new ways to work with encodings via external packages.
1.2.3
Concurrency with goroutines and channels
Computer processors with multiple processing cores have become commonplace.
They’re in devices from servers to cell phones. Yet most programming languages were
designed for processors with a single core, because that’s what existed at the time.
