22
CHAPTER 1
Getting into Go
a package is fetched, metadata about the package is received from the central reposi-
tory, and the package is downloaded from its source location.
 As we touched on earlier, Go has a package-handling system. Unlike Node.js,
which has metadata and content in a central repository, Go has no central repository,
and packages are fetched from their source location.
1.4
Getting up and running in Go
You have a few options for getting into Go, depending on your level of commitment.
 The easiest way to get started with Go is through a tour at http://tour.golang.org, which
walks you through using some of its main features. What separates the Go tour from typical
tutorials is in how the examples work. You can execute the examples right in your browser.
If you want to change them and execute your changes, you can do that as well.
 If you want to try executing simple Go applications, you can do that through the
Go Playground at https://play.golang.org. The Go Playground is what enables the
tour examples to be executable. Here you can test code and share a link to it. The
examples in this book that represent a program can be executed in the Playground.
1.4.1
Installing Go
Installing Go is a fairly straightforward process. Everything you need to know about
getting and installing Go is documented at http://golang.org/doc/install. This
includes the operating systems supported, the hardware architectures that can be tar-
geted for these systems, and more.
 For Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X, installers take care of the installation. It’s as
easy as installing any other program. Users of Homebrew on OS X can install Go by
using the command brew install go.
 Installing Go on Linux includes a wider variety of options. You can install go using
built-in package managers, such as apt-get and yum. The version available is usually
an older version, and newer versions are faster or contain new features. Through the
Go install instructions, you can download the most recent version of Go, put it on
your system, and add the Go executables to your path. On versions of Linux that sup-
port the Debian package system, such as Ubuntu, you can use the godeb tool to install
the latest version of Go. The author of godeb explains the process at http://blog.labix
.org/2013/06/15/in-flight-deb-packages-of-go.
1.4.2
Working with Git, Mercurial, and version control
To work with packages and external imports stored in version-control systems, Go
expects these systems to be installed on the local system. Go doesn’t reimplement any
software configuration management (SCM) tools; rather, it knows about them and
takes advantage of them when installed.
 Two of the dominant version-control systems used by Go developers for packages
are Git and Mercurial (hg). Git is widely popular and is used by numerous Google
developers and by the packages they release to GitHub. You’ll need to have Git
installed, but Go doesn’t require a specific version. Any recent version should do.
