7
Noteworthy aspects of Go
of the returned values, use _ instead of a variable name E. (Don’t worry too much
about the details of this example. You’ll come back to these concepts, libraries, and
tools in the coming chapters.)
 Building on the idea of multiple returned values, you can name them and work
with these names the same way you do variables. To illustrate, let’s rework the previous
example to use named return values in the next listing.
package main
import (
    "fmt"
)
func Names() (first string, second string) {
    first = "Foo"
    second = "Bar"
    return
}
func main() {
    n1, n2 := Names()
    fmt.Println(n1, n2)
As the Names function executes, the named return variables B are available to have
values assigned to them C. When return is called D with no values, the current val-
ues for the return names are returned. For code calling the function, getting the
response E and using it works the same as without using names.
1.2.2
A modern standard library
Modern applications have common themes, such as being networked and dealing
with encryption. Instead of burdening you, the developer, with the task of hunting for
commonly needed libraries, the Go standard library provides useful modern function-
ality out of the box. Let’s take a look at a few elements in the standard library so you
can get an idea of what’s included.
NOTE
The entire standard library is documented, with examples, at
http://golang.org/pkg/.
NETWORKING AND HTTP
Building applications in a networked world means applications need to work as both a
client that can connect to other networked devices, and as a server that other applica-
tions can connect to (see listing 1.3). The Go standard library makes this easy,
whether you’re working with HTTP or dealing directly with Transmission Control Pro-
tocol (TCP), User Datagram Protocol (UDP), or other common setups.
Listing 1.2
Named return values: returns2.go
Returned values have names.
B
Values assigned to named 
return variables
C
return is called with no values.
D
Variables are filled with values.
E
