104
CHAPTER 5
Go’s type system
 These two small examples hopefully show you some of the benefits of interfaces
and how they’re used in the standard library. Next, let’s explore in greater detail how
interfaces are implemented. 
5.4.2
Implementation
Interfaces are types that just declare behavior. This behavior is never implemented by
the interface type directly but instead by user-defined types via methods. When a user-
defined type implements the set of methods declared by an interface type, values of
the user-defined type can be assigned to values of the interface type. This assignment
stores the value of the user-defined type into the interface value. 
 If a method call is made against an interface value, the equivalent method for the
stored user-defined value is executed. Since any user-defined type can implement any
interface, method calls against an interface value are polymorphic in nature. The user-
defined type in this relationship is often called a concrete type, since interface values have
no concrete behavior without the implementation of the stored user-defined value. 
 There are rules around whether values or pointers of a user-defined type satisfy the
implementation of an interface. Not all values are created equal. These rules come
from the specification under the section called method sets. Before you begin to
investigate the details of method sets, it helps to understand what interface type values
look like and how user-defined type values are stored inside them.
 In figure 5.1 you see what the value of the interface variable looks like after the
assignment of the user type value. Interface values are two-word data structures. The
first word contains a pointer to an internal table called an iTable, which contains type
information about the stored value. The iTable contains the type of value that has
been stored and a list of methods associated with the value. The second word is a
pointer to the stored value. The combination of type information and pointer binds
the relationship between the two values.
 Figure 5.2 shows what happens when a pointer is assigned to an interface value.
In this case, the type information will reflect that a pointer of the assigned type has
been stored, and the address being assigned is stored in the second word of the
interface value.   
Address
iTable
Address
user
Type(user)
User
Method set
notifier
Interface value
iTable
Stored value
var n notifier
n = user{"Bill"}
Figure 5.1
A simple view of an 
interface value after concrete 
type value assignment
