89
User-defined types
and represents an integer value. A float32 requires 4 bytes of memory (32 bits) and
represents an IEEE-754 binary floating-point number. A bool requires 1 byte of mem-
ory (8 bits) and represents a Boolean value of true or false. 
 Some types get their representation based on the architecture of the machine the
code is built for. A value of type int, for example, can either have a size of 8 bytes (64
bits) or 4 bytes (32 bits), depending on the architecture. There are other architecture-
specific types as well, such as all the reference types in Go. Luckily, you don’t need to
know this information to create or work with values. But if the compiler doesn’t know
this information, it can’t protect you from doing things that could cause harm inside
your programs and the machines they run on. 
5.1
User-defined types
Go allows you the ability to declare your own types. When you declare a new type, the
declaration is constructed to provide the compiler with size and representation infor-
mation, similar to how the built-in types work. There are two ways to declare a user-
defined type in Go. The most common way is to use the keyword struct, which allows
you to create a composite type. 
 Struct types are declared by composing a fixed set of unique fields. Each field in a
struct is declared with a known type, which could be a built-in type or another user-
defined type.
01 // user defines a user in the program.
02 type user struct {
03
name
string
04
email
string
05
ext
int
06
privileged bool
07 }
In listing 5.1 you see the declaration of a struct type. The declaration starts with the
keyword type, then a name for the new type, and finally the keyword struct. This
struct type contains four fields, each based on a different built-in type. You can see
how the fields come together to compose a structure of data. Once you have a type
declared, you can create values from the type. 
09 // Declare a variable of type user.
10 var bill user
On line 10 in listing 5.2, the keyword var creates a variable named bill of type user.
When you declare variables, the value that the variable represents is always initialized.
The value can be initialized with a specific value or it can be initialized to its zero
value, which is the default value for that variable’s type. For numeric types, the zero
Listing 5.1
Declaration of a struct type
Listing 5.2
 Declaration of a variable of the struct type set to its zero value
