101
Interfaces
File and returns a pointer to that value. When a factory function returns a pointer,
it’s a good indication that the nature of the value being returned is nonprimitive. 
 Even if a function or method is never going to directly change the state of a
nonprimitive value, it should still be shared.
224 func (f *File) Chdir() error {
225
if f == nil {
226
return ErrInvalid
227
}
228
if e := syscall.Fchdir(f.fd); e != nil {
229
return &PathError{"chdir", f.name, e}
230
}
231
return nil
232 }
The Chdir method in listing 5.33 shows how a pointer receiver is declared even
though no changes are made to the receiver value. Since values of type File have a
nonprimitive nature, they’re always shared and never copied. 
 The decision to use a value or pointer receiver should not be based on whether the
method is mutating the receiving value. The decision should be based on the nature
of the type. One exception to this guideline is when you need the flexibility that value
type receivers provide when working with interface values. In these cases, you may
choose to use a value receiver even though the nature of the type is nonprimitive. It’s
entirely based on the mechanics behind how interface values call methods for the val-
ues stored inside of them. In the next section, you’ll learn about what interface values
are and the mechanics behind using them to call methods. 
5.4
Interfaces
Polymorphism is the ability to write code that can take on different behavior through
the implementation of types. Once a type implements an interface, an entire world of
functionality can be opened up to values of that type. The standard library is a great
example of this. The io package provides an incredible set of interfaces and functions
that make streaming data easy to apply to our code. Just by implementing two inter-
faces, we can take advantage of all the engineering behind the io package. 
 But a lot of details go into declaring and implementing interfaces for use in our
own programs. Even the implementation of existing interfaces requires an under-
standing of how interfaces work. Before we get into the details of how interfaces work
and how to implement them, let’s look at a quick example of the use of interfaces
from the standard library. 
Listing 5.33
 golang.org/src/os/file.go: lines 224–232
