96
CHAPTER 5
Go’s type system
 You can also call methods that are declared with a pointer receiver using a value.
31
bill := user{"Bill", "bill@email.com"}
39
// Values of type user can be used to call methods
40
// declared with a pointer receiver.
41
bill.changeEmail("bill@newdomain.com")
In listing 5.21, you see the declaration of the variable bill and then a call to the
changeEmail method, which is declared with a pointer receiver. Once again, Go
adjusts the value to comply with the method’s receiver to support the call.
(&bill).notify()
Listing 5.22 shows essentially what the Go compiler is doing to support the method
call. In this case, the value is referenced so the method call is in compliance with the
receiver type. This is a great convenience Go provides, allowing method calls with val-
ues and pointers that don’t match a method’s receiver type natively. 
 Determining whether to use a value or pointer receiver can sometimes be confus-
ing. There are some basic guidelines you can follow that come directly from the stan-
dard library. 
5.3
The nature of types
After declaring a new type, try to answer this question before declaring methods for
the type. Does adding or removing something from a value of this type need to create
a new value or mutate the existing one? If the answer is create a new value, then use
value receivers for your methods. If the answer is mutate the value, then use pointer
receivers. This also applies to how values of this type should be passed to other parts of
your program. It’s important to be consistent. The idea is to not focus on what the
method is doing with the value, but to focus on what the nature of the value is. 
5.3.1
Built-in types
Built-in types are the set of types that are provided by the language. We know them as
the set of numeric, string, and Boolean types. These types have a primitive nature to
them. Because of this, when adding or removing something from a value of one of
these types, a new value should be created. Based on this, when passing values of these
types to functions and methods, a copy of the value should be passed. Let’s look at a
function from the standard library that works with built-in values.
Listing 5.21
listing11.go: line 31
Listing 5.22
What Go is doing underneath the code
