312
CHAPTER 12
Optimizations
Therefore, we reach a critical stride with a matrix of 512 columns, so we have a poor
caching distribution. Meanwhile, if the matrix contains 513 columns, it doesn’t lead to
a critical stride. This is why we observed such a massive difference between the two
benchmarks.
 In summary, we have to be aware that modern caches are partitioned. Depending
on the striding, in some cases only one set is used, which may harm application per-
formance and lead to conflict misses. This kind of stride is called a critical stride. For
performance-intensive applications, we should avoid critical strides to get the most
out of CPU caches.
NOTE
Our example also highlights why we should take care with the results
of a micro-benchmark if it’s executed on a system other than production. If
the production system has a different cache architecture, performance may
be significantly different.
Let’s continue discussing the impact of CPU caching. This time, we see concrete
effects while writing concurrent code. 
12.2
#92: Writing concurrent code that leads to false sharing
So far, we have discussed the fundamental concepts of CPU caching. We have seen
that some specific caches (typically, L1 and L2) aren’t shared among all the logical
cores but are specific to a physical core. This specificity has some concrete impacts
such as concurrency and the concept of false sharing, which can lead to a significant
performance decrease. Let’s look at what false sharing is via an example and then see
how to prevent it.
 In this example, we use two structs, Input and Result:
type Input struct {
a int64
b int64
}
type Result struct {
sumA int64
sumB int64
}
The goal is to implement a count function that receives a slice of Input and computes
the following:
The sum of all the Input.a fields into Result.sumA
The sum of all the Input.b fields into Result.sumB
For the sake of the example, we implement a concurrent solution with one goroutine
that computes sumA and another that computes sumB:
func count(inputs []Input) Result {
wg := sync.WaitGroup{}
wg.Add(2)
result := Result{}
Initializes the 
result struct
