317
12.3
#93: Not taking into account instruction-level parallelism
In figure 12.16, the CPU decided to
execute the three instructions in par-
allel. Note that not all the instruc-
tions necessarily complete in a single
clock cycle. For example, an instruc-
tion that reads a value already pres-
ent in a register will finish in one
clock cycle, but an instruction that
reads an address that must be
fetched from main memory may take
dozens of clock cycles to complete.
 If executed sequentially, this
sequence of instructions would have
taken the following time (the func-
tion t(x) denotes the time the CPU
takes to execute instruction x):
total time = t(I1) + t(I2) + t(I3)
Thanks to ILP, the total time is the following:
total time = max(t(I1), t(I2), t(I3))
ILP looks magic, theoretically. But it leads to a few challenges called hazards.
 For example, what if I3 sets a variable to 42 but I2 is a conditional instruction (for
example, if foo == 1)? In theory, this scenario should prevent executing I2 and I3 in
parallel. This is called a control hazard or branching hazard. In practice, CPU designers
solved control hazards using branch prediction.
 For example, a CPU can count that the condition was true 99 of the last 100 times;
therefore, it will execute both I2 and I3 in parallel. In case of a wrong prediction (I2
happens to be false), the CPU will flush its current execution pipeline, ensuring that
there are no inconsistencies. This flush leads to a performance penalty of 10 to 20
clock cycles.
 Other types of hazards can prevent executing instructions in parallel. As soft-
ware engineers, we should be aware of that. For example, let’s consider the two follow-
ing instructions that update registers (temporary storage areas used to execute
operations):

I1 adds the numbers in registers A and B to C.

I2 adds the numbers in registers C and D to D.
Because I2 depends on the outcome of I1 concerning the value of register C, the two
instructions cannot be executed simultaneously. I1 must complete before I2. This is
called a data hazard. To deal with data hazards, CPU designers have come up with a
trick called forwarding that basically bypasses writing to a register. This technique
doesn’t solve the problem but rather tries to alleviate the effects.
I1
I2
I3
Execution unit
I1
I2
I3
Sequence of
instructions
Execution unit
Figure 12.16
Despite being written sequentially, the 
three instructions are executed in parallel.
