300
CHAPTER 12
Optimizations
because there’s a need to do so, such as making our customers happy or reducing our
costs. Throughout this chapter, we discuss common optimization techniques; some
are specific to Go, and some aren’t. We also discuss methods to identify bottlenecks so
we don’t work blindly.
12.1
#91: Not understanding CPU caches
Mechanical sympathy is a term coined by Jackie Stewart, a three-time F1 world
champion:
You don’t have to be an engineer to be a racing driver, but you do have to have
mechanical sympathy.
In a nutshell, when we understand how a system is designed to be used, be it an F1 car,
an airplane, or a computer, we can align with the design to gain optimal performance.
Throughout this section, we discuss concrete examples where a mechanical sympathy
for how CPU caches work can help us optimize Go applications.
12.1.1 CPU architecture
First, let’s understand the fundamentals of CPU architecture and why CPU caches are
important. We will take as an example the Intel Core i5-7300.
 Modern CPUs rely on caching to speed up memory access, in most cases via three
caching levels: L1, L2, and L3. On the i5-7300, here are the sizes of these caches:
L1: 64 KB
L2: 256 KB
L3: 4 MB
The i5-7300 has two physical cores but four logical cores (also called virtual cores or
threads). In the Intel family, dividing a physical core into multiple logical cores is
called Hyper-Threading.
 Figure 12.1 gives an overview of the Intel Core i5-7300 (Tn stands for thread n).
Each physical core (core 0 and core 1) is divided into two logical cores (thread 0 and
thread 1). The L1 cache is split into two sub-caches: L1D for data and L1I for instruc-
tions (each 32 KB). Caching isn’t solely related to data—when a CPU executes an
application, it can also cache some instructions with the same rationale: to speed up
overall execution.
 The closer a memory location is to a logical core, the faster accesses are (see
http://mng.bz/o29v):
L1: about 1 ns
L2: about 4 times slower than L1
L3: about 10 times slower than L1
The physical location of the CPU caches can also explain these differences. L1 and L2
are called on-die, meaning they belong to the same piece of silicon as the rest of the
