331
12.6
#96: Not knowing how to reduce allocations
12.6
#96: Not knowing how to reduce allocations
Reducing allocations is a common optimization technique to speed up Go applica-
tions. This book has already covered a few approaches that reduce the number of
heap allocations:
Under-optimized string concatenation (mistake #39): using strings.Builder
instead of the + operator to concatenate strings.
Useless string conversions (mistake #40): whenever possible, avoid having to
convert []byte into strings.
Inefficient slice and map initialization (mistakes #21 and #27): preallocate
slices and maps if the length is already known.
Better data struct alignment to reduce struct size (mistake #94).
As part of this section, we discuss three common approaches to reduce allocations:
Changing our API
Relying on compiler optimizations
Using tools such as sync.Pool
12.6.1 API changes
The first option is to work carefully on the API we provide. Let’s take as a concrete
example the io.Reader interface:
type Reader interface {
Read(p []byte) (n int, err error)
}
The Read method accepts a slice and returns the number of bytes read. Now, imagine
if the io.Reader interface had been designed the other way around: passing an int
representing how many bytes have to be read and returning a slice:
type Reader interface {
Read(n int) (p []byte, err error)
}
Semantically, there is nothing wrong with this. But the returned slice would automati-
cally escape to the heap in this case. We would be in the sharing-up case described in
the previous section.
 The Go designers used the sharing-down approach to prevent automatically escap-
ing the slice to the heap. Therefore, it’s up to the caller to provide a slice. That
doesn’t necessarily mean this slice won’t be escaped: the compiler may have decided
that this slice cannot stay on the stack. However, it’s up to the caller to handle it, not a
constraint caused by calling the Read method.
 Sometimes even a slight change in an API can positively affect allocations. When
designing an API, let’s remain aware of the escape analysis rules described in the pre-
vious section and, if needed, use -gcflags to understand the compiler’s decisions. 
