Asynchronous communication basics
119
The exactly-once guarantee is often harder to achieve in practice than at-least-once and at-most-once. 
In the at-least-once model, a message broker can just re-send the message in case of any failure (such 
as a sudden power loss or a restart). In the exactly-once model, the message broker needs to perform 
additional checks or store extra metadata to ensure the message is never re-sent to the receiver in 
any possible case.
Another classification of message brokers is based on the possibility of them losing messages:
•	 Lossy: A message broker that can occasionally (for example, in case of failures) lose messages
•	 Lossless: A message broker that provides a guarantee of not losing any messages
The at-most-once guarantee is an example of a lossy message broker, and at-least-once and exactly-
once brokers are examples of lossless ones. Lossy message brokers are faster than lossless ones because 
they don’t need to handle extra logic for guaranteeing message delivery, such as persisting messages.
The publisher-subscriber model
The publisher-subscriber model is a model of communication between multiple components (such 
as microservices) where every component can publish messages and subscribe to the relevant ones.
Let’s take Twitter as an example. Any user can publish messages to their feeds, and other users can 
subscribe to them. Similarly, microservices can communicate by publishing the data that other 
services can consume. Imagine that we have a set of services that process various types of user data, 
such as user photos, videos, and text messages. If a user deleted their profile, we would need to notify 
all services about this. Instead of notifying each service one by one, we could publish a single event 
that would indicate that a user profile is deleted, and all services could consume it and perform any 
relevant actions, such as archiving user data.
The relationship between the publishers, the subscribers, and the data produced by the publisher is 
illustrated in the following diagram:
 
Figure 6.1 – The publisher-subscriber model
