Asynchronous Communication
132
Figure 6.4 – A partitioned topic consumption example
You can control the number of topic partitions, as well as the partition for each message your services 
produce. Setting a partition manually may help you to achieve data locality — the ability to co-locate 
the data for various records, storing it together (in our use case, in the same topic partition). For 
example, you can partition the data using a user identifier, making sure the data for any user is stored 
on a single topic partition, helping you simplify the data search across the topic partitions.
The list of best practices that we just described is not comprehensive. It does not cover all recommendations 
for using asynchronous communication in your microservices, but it provides some great ideas for 
what you should consider. Get familiar with the articles listed in the Further reading section for some 
additional ideas and recommendations.
Summary
In this chapter, we have covered the basics of asynchronous communication and illustrated how to 
use it in your microservices. You have learned the benefits of asynchronous communication and the 
common patterns, such as publisher-subscriber and message broker. In addition to this, we have covered 
the basics of the Apache Kafka message broker and illustrated how to use it in our microservices and 
how to implement the logic for producing and consuming data from it.
In the next chapter, we are going to cover another important topic of microservice development – 
data storage. You will learn how to persist and read different types of service data, as well as how to 
implement the logic for working with MySQL database in your Go microservices.
Further reading
•	 Apache Kafka documentation: https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/ 
•	 Publish-subscribe pattern: h t t p s : / / e n . w i k i p e d i a . o r g / w i k i /
Publish%E2%80%93subscribe_pattern 
•	 Asynchronous message-based communication: https://docs.microsoft.com/
en-us/dotnet/architecture/microservices/architect-microservice-
container-applications/asynchronous-message-based-communication
