Asynchronous Communication
116
Asynchronous communication is communication between a sender and one or multiple receivers, where 
a sender does not necessarily expect an immediate response to their messages. In the synchronous 
communication model, which we covered in Chapter 5, the caller sending the request would expect an 
immediate (or nearly immediate, taking into account network latency) response to it. In asynchronous 
communication, it may take an arbitrary amount of time for the receiver to respond to the request, 
or to not respond at all (for example, when receiving a no-reply notification).
We can illustrate the differences between the two models using two examples. An example of 
synchronous communication is a phone call – two people having a phone conversation are in direct 
and immediate communication with each other, and they expect to hear the responses in real time. 
An example of asynchronous communication is sending mail to people. It can take time to respond 
to such mail, and the sender does not expect an immediate response to their messages.
It does not mean, however, that asynchronous communication is necessarily slower than the synchronous 
model. In most cases, asynchronous processing is as quick as synchronous processing and often can 
be even faster: asynchronous processing is often much less interruptive and leads to higher processing 
efficiency. It’s like replying to 10 emails, one by one, compared to switching between 10 parallel phone 
calls — the latter example of synchronous processing can sometimes be way slower due to context 
switching and frequent interruptions. 
Benefits and challenges of asynchronous communication
The asynchronous communication model comes with its own benefits and challenges. Developers 
need to consider both in order to make a decision on whether to use this model. What are the benefits 
of using asynchronous communication? Let’s find out:
•	 The first benefit is a more streamlined approach to processing messages. Imagine you have a 
service whose purpose is to process data and report the status to another service. The reporting 
service does not necessarily need to wait for any response back from the service it is reporting 
to, as it would do in the synchronous model. In asynchronous mode, it just needs confirmation 
that the status message was sent successfully. This is similar to sending a large number of 
postcards to your relatives – if you send a dozen postcards, you don’t want to wait until each 
card gets delivered before sending the next one!
•	 The second benefit of an asynchronous communication model is the ability to de-couple the 
sending and processing of requests. Imagine a caller requesting to download a large video and 
a remote server that needs to perform such a task. In a synchronous model, the caller would 
be waiting in real time until the entire video is processed. This could easily take minutes and 
sometimes even hours, making such waiting very inefficient. Instead, such a task could be 
performed in an asynchronous way, where the caller would send the task to a server, get an 
acknowledgment that the task was received, and perform any other activity until an eventual 
notification of completion (or processing failure) is received.
