Asynchronous Communication
118
•	 Asynchronous data flow may seem non-intuitive to many developers and be more complex: 
Unlike the synchronous request-response model, where each request is logically followed by a 
response to it, asynchronous communication may be unidirectional (no responses are received 
at all) or may require the caller to perform additional steps in order to receive a response (for 
example, when the response is sent as a separate notification). Because of this, data flow in 
asynchronous systems may be more complex than in synchronous request-response interactions.
Now, let’s cover some asynchronous communication techniques and patterns that can help you in 
organizing your services and establishing asynchronous communication between them.
Techniques and patterns of asynchronous communication
There are various techniques that help to make the asynchronous interaction between multiple services 
more efficient in various scenarios, such as sending a message to multiple recipients. In this section, 
we are going to describe multiple patterns that help to facilitate such interactions.
Message broker
A message broker is an intermediary component in the communication chain that can play multiple 
roles:
•	 Message delivery: It performs the delivery of a message to one or multiple receivers.
•	 Message transformation: It transforms an incoming message into another format that can be 
later consumed by receivers.
•	 Message aggregation: It aggregates multiple messages into a single one for more efficient 
delivery or processing.
•	 Message routing: It routes incoming messages to the appropriate destination based on 
pre-defined rules.
When you send a postcard to your friend or a relative, the post office plays the role of a message 
broker, playing an intermediary role in delivering it to the destination. In this example, the main 
benefit of using the message broker would be the convenience of sending the message (postcard, in 
our example) without any need to think about how to deliver it. Another benefit of using message 
brokers is delivery guarantees. A message broker can provide various levels of guarantees for message 
delivery. Examples of these guarantees include the following:
•	 At-least-once: The message gets delivered at least once, but may be delivered multiple times 
in case of failures.
•	 Exactly-once: The message broker guarantees that the message gets delivered and it will be 
delivered exactly once.
•	 At-most-once: The message can be delivered 0 or 1 time.
