Preface
This tour of web application development aims to express the capabilities
required of a development framework, and also considers what is truly important
for developer efficiency within the field of web application development.
Starting with the basics of HTTP and progressing through the built-in features of
Echo, we explore together how best to create, organize, and maintain a
successful web application.
The plethora of Go web application frameworks currently in the wild is
staggering, causing even experienced web application developers paralysis of
analysis. Each web application framework out there has been subtly optimized
for the particular use cases of the group of authors contributing to it. There are so
many opinionated options out there that developers often choose one framework
for their applications and figure out that the features of the framework do not
align with the developer. Oftentimes, the lack of feature functionality or
performance are limiting factors as well for adoption of a web application
framework.
This book focuses on general web application development concepts framed
within the Echo framework. We start by exploring general HTTP concepts and
move onto how these concepts are fulfilled by the built-in features of Echo. In
addition, this book explores exactly how Echo achieves performance and
functional goals by diving deep into the particulars of how the features are
implemented. This book aims to give a clear representation of the essential
functionalities and features within Echo in order to provide developers not only
with reasons to choose Echo, but to provide real examples of Echo in action,
demonstrating how developer efficiency is improved.
Within this book, you will learn about the internal concepts of handler routing,
middleware chaining, and maintaining context. We will demonstrate how you as
a developer will increase efficiency through interacting with Echo for request
binding and response rendering. You will be shown how to effectively log and
handle errors, as well as how to create unit tests for your application. By looking
at the essentials of the Echo framework, you will be equipped to make a positive
