What this book covers
Chapter 1, Understanding HTTP, Go, and Echo, covers a high-level understanding
of HTTP, Go, and the Echo framework. We explain how the Go HTTP standard
library is structured and what useful primitives are included. By reviewing what
features the standard library contains for HTTP requests, responses, and handling
of requests, how using a web framework can improve the quality and robustness
of your application will be evident. Also covered are some of the internals of the
standard library web server and comparisons with Echo. Finally, we also cover
initial environment setup in order for the reader to become immediately
productive.
Chapter 2, Exploring Routing Capabilities, dives into a very fast and high-level
tour of the major functionality of the Echo framework, and discusses around an
optimal Echo project setup. Starting with the most basic Echo handler and
working through an example application, we show the features and capabilities
of Echo very briefly.
Chapter 3, Implementing Middleware, discusses one of the most common
problems in web application development, which is how to appropriately map
the resource described in the URL path to the actual code that represents the
resource. Within this chapter, we will explain how Echo's routing engine works
and provide real examples of how the routing capabilities within Echo perform
better than other web frameworks in the space.
Chapter 4, Developing Echo Projects, covers request and response processing
pipelines within Echo. By using middleware, we show how you can simplify
your handler code by breaking handler units of work into middleware functions.
We also explain how middleware chaining works and what to expect when you
use middleware in Echo.
Chapter 5, Utilizing the Request Context and Data Bindings, explains how context
is used within the Echo framework. Context within the Echo framework allows
for simplification of otherwise difficult information passing. Since context is
built into the handler function signature, your code will always have access to
