Dependency management
One directory that we haven't mentioned so far is the vendor directory. The vendor
directory in a Go project is a special directory. This is where dependency
management for your project will be stored. For our book's long sample project,
we will be using the dep tool. Concisely, dep is a dependency management tool
that will allow you to version pin your dependencies to a project. It works by
taking all of the imported packages that were retrieved with go get or git
commands directly in your $GOPATH and copies the relevant source code needed by
your project into this vendor directory within your project. The tool does this by
reading your source code import statements and figuring out which packages you
need. To get us started, we need to get the dep command with the following
command:
go get -u github.com/golang/dep/cmd/dep
After we install the dep tool, we can initialize our project's vendor directory, as
shown in the following code. When the dep tool initializes a project, it will take
all of the dependencies you have imported and put the code in the vendor
directory:
dep init
It is highly recommended that some form of dependency management is used
within Go projects. There is nothing worse than a project build failure related to
the removal of a dependency from the internet, such as the left-pad issue with
NPM. You can avoid this type of issue by committing the vendor directory
directly into your repository, and versioning it with the rest of your code. There
are drawbacks to this approach—namely, that the size of pull and merge requests
grow very large when there are significant changes to the dependencies of a
project. It is the author's opinion, however, that these sorts of large dependency
changes are indicative of possibly a larger workflow problem.
With this strong structural foundation in place, we are ready to begin the process
of creating our application. The remainder of this chapter will briefly touch on
the major features within the Echo framework.
