/reminder is created off of our /v1 group.
Under the covers, the grouping mechanism merely wraps the Echo instance's Add
function. This means that all group routes are applied to the Echo router's tree
data structure by first applying the prefix of the group onto the path, and then
inserting the routes into the Echo instance's router.
Regardless of whether you choose grouped routes or enumerating each route in
full, understand that your routes will be matched identically. It is fairly common
for API endpoints to allow either a trailing slash, or to not depend on the caller's
personal preference. Based on our discussion so far, it is easy to see how this
could cause problems, as our router will perform exact string matching based on
the provided path. If, for example, we have a route set up, shown as follows, and
we perform an HTTP call with a trailing slash, we will run into a Not Found
situation:
e.POST(“/login”, handlers.Login)
If we perform a call to this service, as shown in the following code, you will get
a Not Found HTTP response code in the response. This is due to the fact that we
do not have an exact match to /login in our request target path:
curl -XPOST http://localhost:8080/login/ -D -
HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8
Date: Sun, 06 May 2018 16:22:09 GMT
Content-Length: 23
{"message":"Not Found"}
It is fairly typical for APIs to accept both versions, a trailing slash as well as a no
trailing slash, and route them to the same handler. This, however, would become
cumbersome if we created two routes for every single endpoint we wished to
serve from the service. A good solution for this is to use the TrailingSlash
middleware that comes bundled with Echo. We will explain how to use this
middleware in depth within Chapter 4, Implementing Middleware, but using a
middleware solution like TrailingSlash will allow you to outline your routes either
with a trailing slash, or not, and the middleware will take care of the trailing
slash for you prior to routing.
Considerations such as these must be in your mind when creating new APIs for
consumption. To that end, the next section of this chapter will outline in detail
