Middleware chaining
The Echo framework provides three mechanisms for inserting middleware into
your request-processing pipeline. The Echo instance's Use(MiddlewareFunc) helper
method is the most common way to add normal post-routing middleware. As
you may recall, for flexibility we showed you how to use the Group(string) Echo
method to organize routes. The Use(MiddlewareFunc) helper method is also available
on Group instances so that you can apply middleware functions only to
particular groupings of routes as well. Use tells the Echo instance, or grouping
instance, that we wish to insert the middleware specified as a parameter into our
middleware chain. It should be made clear that the order of your Use calls is very
important. The order of the middleware insertion stipulates the order in which
the middleware chain will be performed. For example, you might want two
middleware, Logger and Recover, wrapping all of your routes. If you perform the
following operations in order, and there is a panic within your Logger middleware ,
it will not be recoverable, as Recover is wrapped by Logger, and not vice versa. The
following example can be found in $GOPATH/src/github.com/PacktPublishing/Echo-
Essentials/chapter4/cmd/service/main.go:
e.Use(middleware.Logger())   // logger middleware will “wrap” recovery
e.Use(middleware.Recover()) // as it is enumerated before in the Use calls
The Echo instance also provides Pre(MiddlewareFunc) too, which allows insertion of
middleware functions prior to the routing step. This is for global, non-route-
specific middleware functions. An example use case for this feature would be to
manipulate the request prior to routing the request within the framework. As a
concrete example, you would use this feature to change the URL or target path to
remove trailing slashes or perform a redirect. Another good example of a reason
to use Pre-Middleware is for things like recover handling from panics within
your web application, so that responses do not comprise of stack traces. The Pre
function works in the same way the Use function does, in that the ordering is
important to how the middleware is chained. The earlier the Pre call, the earlier
the middleware starts.
The third way to insert a middleware chain is by specifying particular
middleware in order as variadic parameters on the handler routing insertion calls
