The new handler function type
Prior to Go 1., the request data structure in the standard library did not include
any form of modifiable context structure. Due to this limitation in the standard
library, it makes sense that many frameworks decided that the standard library
definition of what a handler did not offer needed flexibility. That being the case,
these frameworks developed their own concepts of context, and changed their
handler function type to pass in a context instead. In the following snippet, you
can see the differences between these handler types, where the Echo handler
function type has a context parameter, while the standard library does not:
type HandlerFunc func(ResponseWriter, *Request) // http handler function type
type HandlerFunc func(Context) error // Echo handler function type
Web frameworks that created a context type and a new HandlerFunc definition that
took the context type as a parameter had a few small concerns to address. Firstly,
the portability of the handler code to switch from one web framework to another
dramatically drops. Effectively, you have vendor lock-in because in order to
switch to a new web framework, you would have to refactor all of your handlers.
Secondly, the context type used as the parameter would need to include both the
request and the response structures, as well as provide an interface to add
contextual data. Looking at the current Echo context interface definition, you
can see that the context implementation needs to implement 53 methods. The
context literally has everything including the kitchen sink.
You might be wondering, if Echo needs to create a new context for every single
request, how can Echo be a low-cost abstraction? Echo achieves this by
implementing a sync.Pool context, which is a set of temporary instances that may
be saved and retrieved. With this capability, every time Echo needs a request
context to be created, it actually goes to the pool and draws an existing context
instance and re-uses it. Other frameworks do not do this, and suffer from new
context instance allocations for every request that comes into their web
application:
