Testing Applications
Testing is critical to creating robust applications, and yet testing is very often
avoided, or overlooked by developers. I believe part of the reasoning is that
companies prioritize application feature speed to market over quality and robust
application development. Another reason is that proper automated testing is
considered difficult, whereas manual testing of an application is seen as the
easier solution.
Within this chapter, we will tackle the problems and solutions of testing
applications within Go and more specifically, how we can test our Echo web
applications. We start by covering the five primary categories of application
testing and then progress into how each type of testing can be accomplished for
our example web application. It will be shown how handler and middleware
functions can be tested independently of the entire system. You will learn how to
mock function calls in order to test various branches of your handlers, as well as
point out tools that can help. Finally, we will show how you can perform
external and integration testing using Go to build instrumented executable
builds.
The entire purpose of testing applications is to prove the code is performing and
functioning the way it was designed. Without tests, you will have absolutely no
idea what your code is actually doing. Testing is the empirical mechanism by
which you can show the business the code functions and provide empirical proof
to the business that this application is ready.
This chapter will showcase how to perform various testing of your Go web
application. By using the standard library testing facilities for your Go
application, you are provided with a framework in which you can create unit
tests as well as benchmark tests for your application. By performing some build
trickery, you will be shown how to compile a coverage-enabled instrumented
executable, for which you can get real solid coverage numbers from your
integration testing. You will learn how to unit and benchmark test your handler
code, as well as middleware code to find functional and performance problems
within your code. By the end of this chapter, you will have a very strong grasp
