Serving static files
When we talk about static files, we are talking about web application assets that
are needed in order to render a working user experience. Static file assets
include, but are not limited to, Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) files, JavaScript
(JS) files, and any other file that a user would need to download in order to
render the web application within the browser. Within Echo, we are able to
present an interface for the browser to download these assets much in the same
way we present new routes within Echo. The following is an example from our
project where we are going to present a route called /static/ wherein every
request that is made to any resource prefixed with /static/ will be served from a
particular directory which is based on the location of the binary executable, in
our example the ./static/ directory:
e.Static("/static", "static")
There are a lot of things happening with this one line, so I will break it down.
The e.Static method takes two arguments, a route path expression, which in this
case is /static, as well as a location on the filesystem, static. This location on the
filesystem must be bound to a directory that is within the current working
directory. The route path expression employs Echo's wildcard matching
capabilities that we covered in the chapter on routing. In essence, this tells Echo
that any request that is prefixed with /static/ will be handled by this static
handling functionality.
Of interest, within the implementation in Echo there is also a mechanism by
which a developer can specify how to serve just a single file as a particular route.
For example, if you wanted to serve a file ./static/index.html whenever a user
requested the URL / , you could add the following:
e.File("/", "static/index.html")
With this line we are telling Echo that any request for / should be responded to
with the contents of the file located in ./static/index.html. As you can see, this
feature allows for flexibility in how the rendering of static content is performed.
Echo exposes Static method below, which allows us to serve static content on a
