61
4.2
Order service implementation
    order.RegisterOrderServer(grpcServer, a)
    if config.GetEnv() == "development" {
        reflection.Register(grpcServer)
    }
    if err := grpcServer.Serve(listen); err != nil {
        log.Fatalf("failed to serve grpc on port ")
    }
} 
Now that we understand ports and adapters in hexagonal architecture, let’s look at
how to combine them all via dependency injection and then run the application.
4.2.7
Dependency injection and running the application
The 12-factor app is a methodology for building applications that encourages you to
Use a declarative setup for infrastructure and for application environment auto-
mation to quickly deploy to any environment, such as dev, staging, or prod
Have a clean contract between underlying operating systems so that the same
application can be executed on any environment with different parameters
Use continuous deployment to minimize divergence between environments
Scale easily without any significant change in the system.
Automation will be addressed in upcoming chapters; the contract between underlying
operating systems is the key topic for our current use case. To understand what config-
uration parameters are available, let’s create a config package and implement configu-
ration logic. This is typical configuration management for applications, and in this
example, we will do it through environment variables, as suggested in the 12-factor
app (https://12factor.net/config).
 In the touch config/config.go file, the main logic in the config.go file will expose
environment variable values to developers via functions. The order application needs
the following environment variables to function properly:

ENV—This is for separating the prod and non-prod environments. For example,
you can enable a debug-level log for non-prod environments and have an info
level on the prod environment.

DATA_SOURCE_URL—This refers to the database connection URL.

APPLICATION_PORT—This is the port on which the Order service will be served. 
The application will fail to start if there is a missing environment variable. Making the
application fail fast due to a missing configuration is better than silently allowing it to
start, which might cause major inconsistencies due to empty environment variable val-
ues (e.g., empty API_URL). We can use the following implementation to properly
address these concerns and read environment variable values:
 
