52
CHAPTER 3
Handling requests
HTTPS is nothing more than layering HTTP on top of SSL (actually, Transport
Security Layer [TLS]). To serve our simple web application through HTTPS, we’ll use
the ListenAndServeTLS function, shown in listing 3.4.
package main
import (
    "net/http"
)
func main() {
    server := http.Server{
        Addr:    "127.0.0.1:8080",
        Handler: nil,
    }
    server.ListenAndServeTLS("cert.pem", "key.pem")
}
In the previous listing, the cert.pem file is the SSL certificate whereas key.pem is the pri-
vate key for the server. In a production scenario you’ll need to get the SSL certificate
from a CA like VeriSign, Thawte, or Comodo SSL. But if you need a certificate and pri-
vate key only to try things out, you can generate your own certificates. There are many
ways of generating them, including using Go standard libraries, mostly under the
crypto library group. 
 Although you won’t use them (the certificate and private key created here) in a
production server, it’s useful to understand how an SSL certificate and private key
SSL, TLS, and HTTPS
SSL (Secure Socket Layer) is a protocol that provides data encryption and authenti-
cation between two parties, usually a client and a server, using Public Key Infrastruc-
ture (PKI). SSL was originally developed by Netscape and was later taken over by the
Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), which renamed it TLS. HTTPS, or HTTP over
SSL, is essentially just that—HTTP layered over an SSL/TLS connection.
An SSL/TLS certificate (I’ll use the term SSL certificate as it’s more widely known) is
used to provide data encryption and authentication. An SSL certificate is an X.509-
formatted piece of data that contains some information, as well as a public key, stored
at a web server. SSL certificates are usually signed by a certificate authority (CA), which
assures the authenticity of the certificate. When the client makes a request to the
server, it returns with the certificate. If the client is satisfied that the certificate is
authentic, it will generate a random key and use the certificate (or more specifically
the public key in the certificate) to encrypt it. This symmetric key is the actual key
used to encrypt the data between the client and the server.
Listing 3.4
Serving through HTTPS
