6. Fuzzy thinking
I shot an arrow into the air,
It fell to earth, I knew not where.
—Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, “The Arrow
and the Song”
In the previous chapter, we explored various strategies for
manually choosing effective test inputs, but we also noted that
there are certain limitations to this approach. There may be
certain inputs that trigger a bug, but if we just don’t happen to
think of them, we won’t find the bug.
By its nature, testing is never complete. As the
influential computer scientist Edsger Dijkstra put it,
“Testing shows the presence, not the absence of
bugs.” No quantity of tests can ever prove a package
free of bugs. At best, they increase our confidence
that the package works well in a wide range of


important scenarios.
—Alan Donovan & Brian Kernighan, “The Go
Programming Language”
Generating random test inputs
Sometimes, then, it can be a good idea to generate test inputs
randomly. For example, here’s a test that generates a random
value and sends it on a round trip through two functions, Encode
and Decode:
func TestEncodeFollowedByDecodeGivesStartingValue(t *te
    t.Parallel()
    input := rand.Intn(10)
    encoded := codec.Encode(input)
    t.Logf("encoded value: %#v", encoded)
    // after the round trip, we should get what we star
    want := input
    got := codec.Decode(encoded)
    if want != got {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing codec/1)
You might worry that, if the value is truly random, then we could
end up with a flaky test. If there’s a bug in Encode or Decode


that’s only triggered by certain inputs, then won’t a test like this
sometimes pass and sometimes fail?
That’s a valid concern, but remember that Go’s math/rand
package uses a default seed (in fact, it’s 1). This particular
random generator produces a sequence of numbers that appear
unpredictable, but in fact depend predictably on the initial seed
value.
Such sequences are certainly not safe for use in cryptography,
precisely because they’re predictable (use crypto/rand/ for
crypto). But they’re usually good enough for games, for example.
They can be implemented with astonishingly little code.
The sequence of numbers produced by rand.Intn will always
be the same for a given seed. That is to say, a program like this
will always produce the same output (try it):
fmt.Println(rand.Intn(10))
fmt.Println(rand.Intn(10))
fmt.Println(rand.Intn(10))
Even though the sequence it generates will look pretty random, it
will always be the same sequence, because it comes from the
same seed (namely, 1).
In other words, the test is deterministic: if it passes today, it’ll pass
tomorrow, and every day thereafter. But the downside of that is
that the sequence never changes. In order to get different
sequences, we’d have to seed the random generator with some
value that changes every time we run the program.
A common way to produce that ever-changing seed value is to
get the current wall-clock time, by calling time.Now:
rand.Seed(time.Now().UnixNano())
input := rand.Intn(10)


Now input will have a different value (at least, one of 10
different values) every time we run the test.
One advantage of this is that if there is some value in the input
space that triggers a bug, we should eventually find it. The
downside is that it might take a while. The bigger the input
space, the longer it takes to explore it by picking values at
random.
And we usually prefer our tests to be deterministic (that is, non-
flaky). So, rather than use changing random seeds, a better idea
is to stick with the default random sequence, or a fixed seed
value, making the outcome of the tests predictable.
To increase our coverage of the input space, and thus our
chances of finding breaking test inputs, we can simply generate
lots of values, and try them all.
Randomly permuting a set of known inputs
A nice way to use randomness without causing flaky tests is to
permute a set of inputs—that is, rearrange them—in some
random order.
For example, the following code generates a slice containing the
integers from 0 to 99, ordered randomly:
inputs := rand.Perm(100)
for _, n := range inputs {
    ... // test with input n
}
The sequence of 100 integers generated by rand.Perm(100) is
not random itself, since each value from 0 to 99 will be
represented exactly once. That wouldn’t be true of randomly
chosen numbers, where some values would occur many times and
others not at all.


Instead, this sequence is randomly permuted (that is, randomly
ordered). You can decide for yourself whether you’d like to seed
the random generator with a non-fixed value (for example, using
time.Now). If so, each time you run the test it will try the inputs
in a different order, which may be useful for finding ordering
bugs in the system.
On the other hand, if you don’t seed the random generator, then
the sequence of inputs will always be the same, which is more
conducive to reproducible builds.
Property-based testing
Randomness can be a good way of finding interesting new test
cases that you might not come up with by yourself. For example,
if your function takes integers, you might have tried testing it
with 1, 5, 7, and so on. You might not have thought of trying
zero as an input, but the random generator would likely produce
that at some point. And if your function breaks when given zero,
that’s something you’d certainly want to know.
Good testers, in general, are good at suggesting inputs that break
the program because the programmer didn’t think of them.
Randomness can help with that process.
One problem with randomised test inputs that may already have
occurred to you is this: if we don’t know in advance what input
we’re going to use, we can’t know what answer to expect as the
result.
For example:
func TestSquareGivesCorrectResult(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    input := rand.Intn(100)
    got := square.Square(input)
    want := ... // uh-oh, what to put here?


What’s our want value here? We don’t know, because we don’t
know what the value of input will be when the test runs, and
thus what its square would be. If we knew that input would be
10, for example, then we could have the test expect the answer
100, but we don’t know that. We’re stuck.
And we don’t want to try to compute the expected result in the
test, because clearly we could get that computation wrong. In the
most pernicious case, we might end up using the same code path
to compute it in the test as we do in the system, so we’d end up
testing nothing at all.
If we can’t predict what the exact result of Square will be for a
given input, is there anything we can say about it in general
terms?
Actually, there is something we can say: it shouldn’t be negative!
No matter what the input, if Square returns a negative result,
something’s gone wrong. So although we can’t predict the exact
result if the system is correct, we can still identify some properties
it should have.
So we could write a test that calls Square with lots of different
inputs, and checks that the result is never negative:
func TestSquareResultIsAlwaysNonNegative(t *testing.T)
    t.Parallel()
    inputs := rand.Perm(100)
    for _, n := range inputs {
        t.Run(strconv.Itoa(n), func(t *testing.T) {


            got := square.Square(n)
            if got < 0 {
                t.Errorf("Square(%d) is negative: %d",
            }
        })
    }
}
(Listing square/1)
This approach is sometimes called property-based testing, to
distinguish it from what we’ve been doing up to now, which we
might call example-based testing.
Another way to think about it is that property-based tests
describe the behaviour of the system, not in terms of exact
values, but in terms of invariants: things that don’t change about
the result, no matter what the input is. In the case of Square, for
example, its result should invariably be positive.
Randomised, property-based testing helps to fix the problem that
maybe the function only works for the specific examples we
thought of. And although we generate the inputs randomly, once
we find some value that triggers a bug, it should then simply
become part of our conventional example-based tests.
We could do this by manually adding such values to the set of
inputs in a table test, for example, but there’s no need. Go
provides an automated way to turn randomly-generated breaking
inputs into static test cases for us, using what’s called fuzz testing.
Fuzz testing
Fuzz testing works by throwing everything at the
wall and seeing what sticks.
—Xuanyi Chew, “Property-Based Testing”
Nobody’s perfect, especially programmers, and while we try to
be reasonably careful when writing code, we’re bound to
overlook things from time to time. Remember, in our adventure


game example from the first chapter, how early versions of the
ListItems function panicked when given slices of length zero
or one?
That’s a good demonstration of how bugs can arise when the
programmer doesn’t envision certain kinds of inputs, and thus
doesn’t test that the system handles them correctly. In other
words, you can only find bugs you can think of.
Slice overruns are a classic example of the kind of bug that busy
programmers can easily overlook:
results := SearchProducts(productID)
return results[0].Name // panics if there are no result
Indeed, this code might run perfectly well in production for
months or even years, and then suddenly break when someone
searches for a product that doesn’t exist. It wasn’t caught by any
example-based tests because nobody thought about that situation.
But there’s another kind of testing that can help: fuzz testing. The
“fuzz” here refers not to data that’s blurry, or imprecise, but
means simply “randomly generated”. Tools for fuzz testing have
been around for decades, but built-in support for it was added to
Go relatively recently, in version 1.18.
Could we boost our chances of finding lurking bugs in a Go
function by fuzzing it—that is, by randomly generating lots of
different inputs, and seeing what happens?
To find out, let’s deliberately write a function that will panic
when given a certain secret trigger value:
func Guess(n int) {
    if n == 21 {
        panic("blackjack!")


    }
}
(Listing guess/1)
Now, we’ll pretend we don’t know the special value, but we
merely suspect that such a bug lurks within the function. We’ll try
to find it using randomised inputs. How could we do that?
We need to generate a large number of random values that
decently cover the space of likely inputs, and call the function
with each of them in turn. If one of them causes a panic, then we
have found our bug.
It’s not that we couldn’t write this by hand, as in the previous
examples, but instead let’s try writing a fuzz test, using Go’s
standard testing package.
Here’s what that looks like:
func FuzzGuess(f *testing.F) {
    f.Fuzz(func(t *testing.T, input int) {
        guess.Guess(input)
    })
}
(Listing guess/1)
The names of fuzz tests in Go start with the word Fuzz, just as
regular tests start with the word Test. And the parameter they
take is a *testing.F, which is similar to our friend the
*testing.T, and has many of the same methods.
The fuzz target
What do we do with this f parameter, then? We call its Fuzz
method, passing it a certain function. Passing functions to


functions is very Go-like, and though it can be confusing when
you’re new to the idea, it’s also very powerful once you grasp it.
So what’s this function within a function? In fact, it’s the
function that the fuzz testing machinery (the fuzzer, for short)
will repeatedly call with the different values it generates.
We call this function the fuzz target, and here is its signature:
func(t *testing.T, input int)
Remember, this isn’t the test function, it’s the function we pass to
f.Fuzz. And although it must take a *testing.T as its first
argument, it can also take any number of other arguments. In
this example, it takes a single int argument that we’ll call
input.
These extra arguments to the fuzz target represent your inputs,
which the fuzzer is going to randomly generate. In other words,
the fuzzer’s job is to call this function—the fuzz target—with lots
of different values for input, and see what happens.
And here’s the fuzz target we’ll be using in this example:
func(t *testing.T, input int) {
    guess.Guess(input)
}
This very simple fuzz target does nothing but call Guess with
the generated input. We could do more here; indeed, we could
do anything that a regular test can do using the t parameter.
But to keep things simple for now, we’ll just call the function
under test, without actually checking anything about the result.
So the only way this fuzz target can fail is if the function either
panics, or takes so long to return that the test times out.
Running tests in fuzzing mode
To start fuzzing, we use the go test command, adding the -


fuzz flag:
go test -fuzz .
Note the dot after the -fuzz, which is significant. Just as the -
run flag takes a regular expression to specify which tests to run,
the -fuzz flag does the same. In this case, we’re using the
regular expression “.”, which matches all fuzz tests.
Here’s the result:
warning: starting with empty corpus
fuzz: elapsed: 0s, execs: 0 (0/sec), new
interesting: 0 (total: 0)
--- FAIL: FuzzGuess (0.05s)
    --- FAIL: FuzzGuess (0.00s)
        testing.go:1356: panic: blackjack!
        [stack trace omitted]
Failing input written to testdata/fuzz/
FuzzGuess/xxx
    To re-run:
    go test -run=FuzzGuess/xxx
The first thing to note about this output is that the test failed.
Specifically, it failed with this panic:
panic: blackjack!
This is the panic message that we deliberately hid inside the
Guess function. It didn’t take too long for the fuzzer to find the
“secret” input that triggers the panic. But what was it?
This isn’t shown as part of the output, but there’s a clue:
Failing input written to testdata/fuzz/
FuzzGuess/xxx
Instead of xxx, the actual filename is some long hexadecimal
string that I won’t weary you by reproducing in full. We don’t
normally need to look at the contents of these files, but just for
fun, let’s take a peek:


go test fuzz v1
int(21)
The first line identifies what kind of file this is: it’s generated by
v1 of the Go fuzzer. Including a version identifier like this is a
good idea when generating any kind of machine-readable file, by
the way. If you decide you’d like to change the file format later,
you can alter the version number to maintain compatibility with
older versions of the reading program.
The second line contains the information we’re really interested
in:
int(21)
This gives the specific input value represented by this test case.
It’s an int, which is no surprise, since that’s what our fuzz target
takes, and the value that triggered a failure is the magic 21.
Winner, winner, chicken dinner!
Failing inputs become static test cases
Fuzz testing is great at discovering unexpected
inputs that expose weird behaviour.
—Jay Conrod, “Internals of Go’s new fuzzing
system”
Why has the fuzzer generated this testdata file, then? Why not
just report the failing input as part of the test results, for
example?
Well, suppose we grow bored of fuzzing for the time being, and
we decide to just run our plain old tests again, without the -
fuzz flag:
go test
--- FAIL: FuzzGuess (0.00s)
    --- FAIL: FuzzGuess/xxx (0.00s)
panic: blackjack! [recovered]


Wait, what? Why is it running the fuzz test, if we didn’t say -
fuzz?
The answer, as you may have guessed, is that fuzz tests can also
act as regular tests. When run in non-fuzzing mode (that is,
without the -fuzz flag), they don’t generate any random inputs.
What they do instead is call the fuzz target with any and all
inputs that have previously been found to trigger a failure. These
are the inputs stored in the special files under testdata/fuzz.
As it happens, there’s only one such input at the moment (21),
but it’s enough to fail the test. A good way to think about the
fuzzer is that its job is to generate failing test cases, which then
become part of your normal example-based tests.
In other words, once some randomly-generated failing input has
been found by the fuzzer, running go test will test your
function with that input ever afterwards, unless you choose to
remove the testdata file manually.
Let’s fix the function so that it no longer panics on 21, or indeed
does anything at all:
func Guess(n int) {}
(Listing guess/2)
Let’s use go test with the -v flag to show that the 21 test case
now passes:
go test -v
=== RUN   FuzzGuess
=== RUN   FuzzGuess/xxx
--- PASS: FuzzGuess (0.00s)
    --- PASS: FuzzGuess/xxx (0.00s)
This is a neat feature, as it means that the fuzzer automatically
creates regression tests for us. If we should ever write a bug in the
future that would cause the function to fail given this same
input, go test will catch it. Every time a new failing test case is
found by the fuzzer, it becomes part of our regular test suite.


Fuzzing a risky function
Let’s take a more complicated example. First, to set the scene, a
word or two about strings, bytes, runes, and characters in Go.
As you may know, text characters in Go are called runes. In many
languages characters are represented by single-byte values, and
therefore characters and bytes are equivalent, but that’s not the
case in Go.
You probably also know that Go can represent not merely the
256 possible single-byte characters specified by ASCII, but also
the 150,000-odd Unicode characters. This means that your Go
programs can deal with the alphabet of just about every human
language, and many other characters besides, such as emojis.
This does mean, though, that it can take more than one byte to
represent a Go rune, since a single byte only gives 256 possible
values. So it’s not safe to write Go code that assumes each byte of
a string represents a single character. Such code will produce the
wrong result when given non-ASCII input, such as accented
letters, or Chinese characters.
And we can demonstrate this quite easily. Suppose, for example,
we want to write some function FirstRune that takes a string
and returns its first rune. Given the string "Hello", let’s say, it
should return the rune 'H'.
In a programming language where runes are just bytes, this
would be straightforward. We could simply treat the string as a
[]byte, and return its first element.
We know that won’t work in Go, unless we can guarantee that
the input is restricted to ASCII text. But it’s the kind of mistake
that’s easy to make, especially if you’re new to Go.
Let’s see if we can use fuzz testing to catch this kind of error,
then. We’ll use the fuzzer to generate random inputs, and see if
any of them produce the wrong answer from FirstRune.
Here’s an example of such a test:


func FuzzFirstRune(f *testing.F) {
    f.Add("Hello")
    f.Add("world")
    f.Fuzz(func(t *testing.T, s string) {
        got := runes.FirstRune(s)
        want, _ := utf8.DecodeRuneInString(s)
        if want == utf8.RuneError {
            t.Skip() // don't bother testing invalid ru
        }
        if want != got {
            t.Errorf("given %q (0x%[1]x): want '%c' (0x
                s, want)
            t.Errorf("got '%c' (0x%[1]x)", got)
        }
    })
}
(Listing runes/1)
It might look a little alarming at first, but we’ll break it down,
line by line.
The general idea is to call FirstRune with some string
(randomly generated by the fuzzer), and compare the result
against what the “oracle” (in this case, the standard


utf8.DecodeRuneInString function) says it should be.
If our FirstRune function works correctly, it should give the
same rune result as DecodeRuneInString for all inputs. But if
there’s a bug in the function, its result won’t match the oracle’s,
and the fuzz target will mark this as a failing test case.
Adding training data with f.Add
While, as we’ve seen, the fuzzer is quite capable of generating
random values from scratch, it can be helpful to give it some
starting inputs as hints. Remember the mysterious warning it
gave us when we ran the fuzz test for the Guess function?
warning: starting with empty corpus
The fuzzer’s corpus is the set of training data we give it, if you
like. It can still fuzz even with an empty corpus, as we saw, but it
helps if we can provide a few example values for it to start with.
These will be supplied to our fuzz target and tested. The fuzzer
will then generate more inputs from them by mutating them
randomly.
Here’s how we add training data to the corpus:
f.Add("Hello")
f.Add("world")
(Listing runes/1)
We can call f.Add to add more example values as many times as
we like. The more training data we can give the fuzzer to suggest
possible lines of attack, the better.
The corpus also includes any previously-generated failing test
cases stored in the testdata/fuzz folder, like the “21” case in
our previous example. So over time we’ll build up a bigger and
bigger corpus, which gives the fuzzer more to work with.
A more sophisticated fuzz target


Next comes the call to f.Fuzz with our fuzz target:
f.Fuzz(func(t *testing.T, s string) {
    got := runes.FirstRune(s)
    want, _ := utf8.DecodeRuneInString(s)
    if want == utf8.RuneError {
        t.Skip() // don't bother testing invalid runes
    }
    if want != got {
        ... // fail
    }
})
(Listing runes/1)
First, we’ll call the function and save its result to a variable got,
so we can compare it with the expected result. What is the
expected result, though, since we don’t know in advance what s
is?
Well, we can’t predict it, but we can ask the oracle.
DecodeRuneInString will give us the right answer, and we’ll
store it in the want variable.
Now, we know that the fuzzer is going to generate lots of
random strings for us to use as input, but are all possible strings
actually valid input to FirstRune?
No, because not all strings encode valid UTF-8 runes. For
example, the empty string doesn’t. And there are many sequences
of arbitrary bytes that don’t happen to be valid UTF-8 data. So
we need to do a little pre-filtering on our input, before checking


whether FirstRune actually handled it correctly.
Suppose the fuzzer calls our fuzz target with some string that
doesn’t contain valid runes. What will our oracle function
DecodeRuneInString return in this case?
The answer is the constant utf8.RuneError. If we get that
result, then this particular input value is invalid, and we should
just skip it. That’s what the call to t.Skip does:
if want == utf8.RuneError {
    t.Skip() // don't bother testing invalid runes
}
(Listing runes/1)
A skipped test neither fails nor succeeds; the fuzzer just ignores it
and moves on to the next randomly-generated input.
Why don’t we skip the test before calling FirstRune with the
input? Because even though we don’t require FirstRune to give
the right answer for invalid strings, we do require that it doesn’t
panic. So if any fuzz input makes FirstRune panic, we want to
find that out before we skip.
Finally, just like in any test, we compare want and got, and fail
the test if they’re not equal. The failure message is a little more
complicated than any we’ve written so far:
t.Errorf("given %q (0x%[1]x): want '%c' (0x%[2]x)", s,
t.Errorf("got '%c' (0x%[1]x)", got)
(Listing runes/1)
Let’s break it down. In the event of a failure, what information
would we like to print? Certainly the input string that caused the
failure, so that’s the first piece of data:
given %q


Even though this string is guaranteed to be valid UTF-8, we can’t
guarantee that all its characters will be printable, or have a
corresponding glyph in the display font we’re using.
So just in case the string contains some non-printing runes, we’d
also like to print out its raw bytes, as numbers. How can we do
that?
As you probably know, the fmt verb %x will print a piece of data
as a hexadecimal value. And we can give the reader a clue that
what follows is a hex value by prefixing it with “0x”, which
denotes a hex literal in Go.
So a format string like this would do the job:
t.Errorf("given %q (0x%x) ... ", s, s)
For example, if s were the string “hello”, and the test failed, this
would print:
given "hello" (0x68656c6c6f) ...
But notice that we had to supply the argument s twice, which
seems wasteful. As you know, every % verb in the format string
has to correspond to a piece of data, supplied as a subsequent
argument to t.Errorf.
So if there are two verbs (%q and %x), then we need two data
arguments, even though they’re actually the same value. Is there a
way to avoid repeating s in this case, then?
Yes. We can use what’s called an explicit argument index, which is
a number in square brackets that goes between the % and the x
in %x:
%[1]x
This is interpreted by the formatting machinery as meaning
“print the Nth data value”. In this case, that’ll be number 1, the
first data value, which is s.
We can use the explicit-index trick to repeat a given argument


any number of times in our format string:
fmt.Printf("%s %[1]s %[1]s %[1]s", "hello")
// Output:
// hello hello hello hello
In the fuzzing example, we need to use s twice, once to print it
out as a quoted string (%q), and again as a hex value (%x). So
here’s how we do that:
t.Errorf("given %q (0x%[1]x) ...", s, ...)
So far, so good. What about the next part of the format string?
Since both want and got in this case are characters, we’ll need
to use the verb %c to display them.
And, again, we’ll use the explicit argument index (in this case,
index 2) to re-use the same data, but this time printing it as a hex
value (%x).
t.Errorf("... want '%c' (0x%[2]x)", ..., want)
Here’s what that would look like if the test failed:
... want 'w' (0x77)
The final part of the failure message prints got in the same way:
t.Errorf("got '%c' (0x%[1]x)", got)
And the result:
got 'v' (0x76)
Using the fuzzer to detect a panic
So we’re ready to write a null implementation of FirstRune
and try out our test. We know it won’t pass, and that’s the point.
As you’ll recall, if we’re trying to build a bug detector, we need
to see it detect a bug.


Let’s write one:
func FirstRune(s string) rune {
    return 0
}
(Listing runes/1)
This is definitely wrong, so let’s see if the test agrees:
go test -fuzz .
fuzz: elapsed: 0s, gathering baseline coverage:
0/2 completed
failure while testing seed corpus entry:
FuzzFirstRune/seed#1
fuzz: elapsed: 0s, gathering baseline coverage:
0/2 completed
--- FAIL: FuzzFirstRune (0.02s)
    --- FAIL: FuzzFirstRune (0.00s)
        runes_test.go:22: given "world"
(0x776f726c64): want 'w'
        (0x77)
        runes_test.go:24: got '' (0x0)
That’s encouraging, so let’s see what our carefully-constructed
failure message actually reports:
given "world" (0x776f726c64): want 'w' (0x77)
got '' (0x0)
So the failing input is “world”, which was one of the cases we
manually added to the corpus using f.Add. What caused the
failure, then?
The oracle thinks that the first rune of "world" is w, and I
agree. But what FirstRune actually returned in this case was
the rune value 0x0, which corresponds to a non-printing
character.


This is exactly what we expected to happen, since we
deliberately wrote FirstRune so that it always returns zero, no
matter what. But now that we’ve validated the bug detector, we
can go ahead and write a slightly more plausible version of
FirstRune:
func FirstRune(s string) rune {
    return rune(s[0])
}
(Listing runes/2)
We use the square bracket slice-index notation (s[0]) to extract
the first byte of s, and we return it having converted it explicitly
to the rune type.
Though plausible, this is still incorrect, and you can see why,
can’t you? This is the kind of code that someone might write, for
example, if they didn’t know about the distinction between bytes
and runes in Go that we talked about earlier. It might even work
some of the time, but only by accident, and so long as we only
ever get input strings containing single-byte characters.
Let’s see how far we get this time:
go test -fuzz .
fuzz: elapsed: 0s, gathering baseline coverage:
0/2 completed
fuzz: elapsed: 0s, gathering baseline coverage:
2/2 completed,
    now fuzzing with 8 workers
fuzz: minimizing 27-byte failing input file
fuzz: elapsed: 0s, minimizing
--- FAIL: FuzzFirstRune (0.16s)
    --- FAIL: FuzzFirstRune (0.00s)
        testing.go:1356: panic: runtime error:
index out of range
        [0] with length 0


        [stack trace omitted]
It seems that the two seed corpus examples have now been
successfully checked (2/2 completed), and the fuzzer
announces now fuzzing with 8 workers, meaning that all
eight CPU cores are concurrently generating inputs for the fuzz
target. The more cores we have available, the more fuzzing we
can do in parallel.
When we’re reporting a bug we found manually, it’s always
worth taking a little time to find the minimal input that still
reproduces the bug. This will help the maintainers, because they
can ignore the irrelevant parts of the input and focus on the part
that triggers the problem. By this shrinking process, we eliminate
any part of the input that doesn’t affect the outcome.
The fuzzer does the same thing. If it finds some input that fails
the test, it tries smaller and smaller versions of it, looking for the
minimal failing input:
fuzz: minimizing 27-byte failing input file
fuzz: elapsed: 0s, minimizing
In this example, we can see that it found a 27-byte input string
that caused the fuzz target to fail. It then tries smaller and
smaller versions of the input to see if they still fail. This process
continues until it has found the minimal input that causes the
fuzz target to fail.
And here it is:
--- FAIL: FuzzFirstRune (0.16s)
    --- FAIL: FuzzFirstRune (0.00s)
        testing.go:1356: panic: runtime error:
index out of range
        [0] with length 0
It seems that, in this case, the fuzzer managed to shrink the
failing input to a completely empty string (length 0). This is
rather puzzling. What’s gone on here?


In fact, what’s probably happened is that the fuzzer generated a
random 27-byte string whose first rune was multi-byte, causing
the function to return the wrong answer. As the fuzzer tried
shorter and shorter versions of the string, the same “wrong
result” failure kept happening.
Finally, when it reduced the string to length zero, it got a
different failure: an “index out of range” panic. It so happens that
FirstRune doesn’t cope well with empty input strings:
func FirstRune(s string) rune {
    return rune(s[0]) // oops, slice overrun
}
(Listing runes/2)
As I’m sure you spotted right away, the slice index expression
s[0] will panic when s is empty, and indeed that’s what we’re
seeing. Let’s fix that:
func FirstRune(s string) rune {
    if s == "" {
        return utf8.RuneError
    }
    return rune(s[0])
}
(Listing runes/3)
It seems reasonable to follow the example set by the standard
library, which is to return utf8.RuneError in this case. Now
the function won’t panic when given an empty input.
As you’ll recall from our earlier example, when the fuzzer finds a


failing input, it automatically saves it to the testdata folder.
This becomes part of the corpus, and even when we run go
test without the -fuzz flag, this case will still be checked.
Let’s try that now, using the -v flag to go test to see which
tests are actually being run, and whether our fuzz-generated
cases are among them:
go test -v
=== RUN   FuzzFirstRune
=== RUN   FuzzFirstRune/seed#0
=== RUN   FuzzFirstRune/seed#1
=== RUN   FuzzFirstRune/xxx
    fuzz_test.go:61:
--- PASS: FuzzFirstRune (0.00s)
    --- PASS: FuzzFirstRune/seed#0 (0.00s)
    --- PASS: FuzzFirstRune/seed#1 (0.00s)
    --- SKIP: FuzzFirstRune/xxx (0.00s)
Again, xxx is actually a much longer name, but I’ve spared you
that. We can see, though, that the two manually-added seeds are
being checked (seed#0 and seed#1), and then we come to the
generated case xxx, which we know is the empty string.
The result of that is neither pass nor fail, but SKIP. Why?
Remember when we first wrote the test, we said that we’ll skip
inputs for which DecodeRuneInString returns RuneError.
That’s true for the empty string, which is why this case shows as
skipped.
Detecting more subtle bugs
The fuzzer has already proved its worth, by detecting a panic in
the FirstRune function when it’s called with the empty string
as input. But are there still more bugs lurking?
In the previous example, we saw that the fuzzer found a 27-byte
string that caused a test failure. That can’t be due to the slice
overrun bug, so there must still be another bug remaining in
FirstRune.


Let’s see if we can find it:
go test -fuzz .
fuzz: elapsed: 0s, gathering baseline coverage:
0/3 completed
fuzz: elapsed: 0s, gathering baseline coverage:
3/3 completed, now
fuzzing with 8 workers
fuzz: minimizing 32-byte failing input file
fuzz: elapsed: 0s, minimizing
--- FAIL: FuzzFirstRune (0.13s)
    --- FAIL: FuzzFirstRune (0.00s)
        fuzz_test.go:22: given "ʭ" (0xcaad):
want 'ʭ' (0x2ad),
        got 'Ê' (0xca)
Again, interpreting this output, we can see that the fuzzer found
a 32-byte failing input, which it then managed to shrink to just 2
bytes:
given "ʭ" (0xcaad)
That is, this input string consists of the rune ʭ, which in UTF-8 is
encoded as two bytes, 0xca and 0xad. If FirstRune had
correctly decoded this string, it would have returned the rune ʭ,
the same result as the oracle.
Instead, it mistakenly interpreted the first byte of the string
(0xca) as a single-byte rune, in this case the letter Ê.
A victory for fuzzing! Even if we didn’t know about the
distinction between runes and bytes in Go, and even if we might
not have thought of using a string like “ʭ” as an example input,
we were still able to find the bug.
So fuzz testing is very useful in situations where there is a wide
range of possible inputs, and where the function may return
correct results for some inputs, but not others.
This is usually true whenever the system accepts user input, for


example. Users input all kinds of crazy things to our systems,
even though they shouldn’t do that. So any program that needs
to parse or transform user input, or arbitrary data of any kind, is
a good candidate for fuzz testing.
Even when we can’t check the exact results of a function in a
fuzz test, we can still catch panics and hangs (timeouts), and we
may also be able to test some properties of the result, as in our
earlier Square example.
What to do with fuzz-generated test cases
As we’ve seen, the aim of fuzz testing is to generate new failing
test cases. So what should we do with the results?
We saw in the previous chapter that it’s not a good idea to
automatically update golden files; that is, to derive passing test
cases from the current behaviour of the system. But it’s
absolutely a good idea to do the opposite: to automatically create
test cases that cause the current system to fail.
The reason is simple: a failing test case blocks deployment and
grabs your attention. A false positive bug detection—that is, a test
failure that doesn’t correspond to a real bug—is much less
serious than a false negative, where there is a bug but you don’t
know about it.
Because fuzzing can create new test data, you’ll need to
remember to check these changes into your version control
system. That’s why it really only makes sense to run the fuzzer
manually, for example on your development machine, rather
than automatically, in a CI pipeline or GitHub Action. The CI
system would have to be set up to detect any changes and
commit them to version control, and that’s usually not
straightforward.
Fuzzing can take a while, too, so we wouldn’t want to do it every
time we run the tests. A good time to try fuzzing is when you
think you’ve covered the system pretty well with example-based
testing, but you suspect there may still be bugs lurking. The more
critical the reliability and correctness of the system, the more


fuzz testing you’ll want to do.
The examples we’ve tested in this chapter have all resulted in
failing cases being found fairly quickly, but what if that doesn’t
happen? How long will the fuzzer keep trying, before deciding
there are no failures to be found?
The answer is that it will keep trying forever! A test run in fuzz
mode, if no failures are found, will never terminate. And that
makes sense: it’s unlikely that we could ever completely exhaust
the space of possible inputs. There are always more bugs to be
found.
It is up to you to decide how long to run fuzzing. It
is very possible that an execution of fuzzing could
run indefinitely if it doesn’t find any errors.
—Katie Hockman, “Go Fuzzing”
You’ll probably find that on your first few fuzz runs, there are
plenty of failures to keep you occupied. Once you’ve found and
fixed the bugs responsible, the fuzzer may run for a while
without any results; perhaps for several minutes.
If you like, you can leave it to run for several hours, or even
overnight. You never know, it might find something. Once you
decide there’s not much more to be gained by further fuzzing,
though, or if your CPUs are starting to melt, you can terminate
the test run by typing Ctrl-C in the terminal.
Alternatively, you can run the fuzzer for a fixed time period,
using the -fuzztime flag. For example:
go test -fuzz . -fuzztime=10m
Fixing the implementation
How should we have implemented FirstRune correctly, then?
Well, that’s not really important for the discussion of fuzz testing,
but I don’t like to leave anyone in suspense. Let’s see if we can
fix this bug.


There are a variety of ways we could write FirstRune
correctly, including the rather dull one of simply calling
utf8.DecodeRuneInString, as the test does.
But here’s a slightly more interesting version, just for fun:
func FirstRune(s string) rune {
    for _, r := range s {
        return r
    }
    return utf8.RuneError
}
(Listing runes/4)
Why does this work? As you probably know, the range operator
iterates over a string by runes, not by bytes. So, on each
successive execution of this loop, r will be the next rune in the
string, starting with the first.
But on this very first iteration, we hit the return statement
inside the loop body, and we return the first rune straight away.
After all, that’s the right answer!
In the case where s is empty, the for loop will execute zero
times; that is to say, not at all. We’ll go straight to the end of the
function and return the value 0.
I think this is correct, but let’s see if the fuzzer agrees. Or, rather,
we’ll give the fuzzer a chance to find some counterexamples, and
see if it succeeds:
go test -fuzz .
fuzz: elapsed: 0s, gathering baseline coverage:
0/4 completed


fuzz: elapsed: 0s, gathering baseline coverage:
4/4 completed, now
fuzzing with 8 workers
fuzz: elapsed: 3s, execs: 130517 (43494/sec),
new interesting: 5
(total: 13)
fuzz: elapsed: 6s, execs: 268452 (45962/sec),
new interesting: 5
(total: 13)
fuzz: elapsed: 9s, execs: 396881 (42797/sec),
new interesting: 5
(total: 13)
...
And, in fact, I left this to run for a minute or two, but it didn’t
find any more failing inputs. That doesn’t guarantee that there
aren’t any, of course. Even the fuzzer can’t guarantee that.
We can’t prove anything in science. But the best that
scientists can do is fail to disprove things while
pointing to how hard they tried.
—Richard Dawkins, “The Greatest Show on
Earth”
The aim of fuzz testing, then, is to fail to disprove the correctness
of a function such as FirstRune for some reasonable period of
time, while pointing to how hard we tried.
One interesting thing you might have noticed about this output is
the word “interesting”. What does that mean?
fuzz: elapsed: 3s, execs: 130517 (43494/sec),
new interesting: 5
(total: 13)
It turns out that the fuzzer does more than just generate random
inputs. It also looks at which code paths are executed by those
inputs. It considers an input “interesting” if it causes a new code
path to be executed in the system under test.


After all, if there’s a code path that’s executed by no other test
case, bugs could definitely be lurking there. So the fuzzer tries to
discover inputs that cause new code paths to be executed. If it
finds any, it uses them as a basis to generate similar inputs,
hoping to find one that triggers a failure.
A question that might occur to you is how the fuzzer knows
which code paths in your system are executed by any given test
case. The answer is that it uses the same runtime instrumentation
with which Go calculates your test coverage, and we’ll talk more
about that in the next chapter.
