5. Users shouldn’t do that
Ella discovered that dragging text from a text box
on the screen and dropping it in another window
resulted in a crash. She figured the tester would
want to know about the problem, so she stopped by
his cubicle and said, “Hey, let me show you
something.” She then demonstrated what she’d
found.
The tester stared at her for a few seconds and then
replied. “Yeah?”
“Don’t you think it’s a bug?”
“No. Users shouldn’t do that.”
—Gerald Weinberg, “Perfect Software: And
Other Illusions About Testing”
Even the best-written tests are only as reliable as the cases they
check. In this chapter, we’ll talk about how to design good tests
and test data, and introduce some techniques for generating


them.
Constructing effective test inputs
Testing is, at best, sampling. Since we can’t test
everything, any set of real tests is some kind of
sample. Fundamentally, sampling is a psychological
process—and an emotional one. A sample that
satisfies one person may not satisfy another in the
slightest.
—Gerald Weinberg, “Perfect Software: And
Other Illusions About Testing”
Since we usually can’t test every possible input to the system,
how should we decide which ones to test? Emotion and
psychology should never be neglected in programming, but can
we also introduce some logic to guide the sampling process?
As we’ve seen in previous chapters, one way to generate useful
test inputs is to imagine what could be wrong with the system. For
example, could it be a maliciously lazy implementation that
simply returns hard-coded responses? To catch these, we can
simply supply more inputs. But which?
Perhaps we just choose a few random values from the input space,
that is, the set of all possible inputs that the system could take.
On the other hand, maybe not all inputs are equally likely to
trigger problems. For example, given a function that calculates
square roots, we might test it all day long with positive numbers
and never find a failure. But the moment we pass it a negative
number, it might panic, or return the wrong answer.
The computer-sciency term for this is equivalence class. In the
square root example, all positive inputs are of equivalent value
for testing. If the function works for a handful of them, it will
probably work for all. But negative numbers are in a different
equivalence class: the result of the square root operation is not
defined for them.
In other words, knowing where to usefully sample the input


space depends partly on knowing how the program actually
works.
Devising good test cases demands the same rigorous
thinking as programming in general.
—Alan Donovan & Brian Kernighan, “The Go
Programming Language”
When choosing our test data, then, we should try to pick a good
sample of inputs from each equivalence class. Partitioning the
input space in this way helps to reduce the number of inputs we
need to get a given level of confidence in the system’s
correctness.
Another good place to look is the boundary between equivalence
classes. For example, boundary values for a square root function
might be 1, 0, and -1. We’ve all made off-by-one errors in
programming. If there’s such an error in the system, choosing
inputs on or near boundaries will help flush it out.
A good tester thinks adversarially when designing test inputs.
Perhaps users won’t deliberately be trying to crash your
software, but sometimes it can seem that way. If you can’t think
up some unlikely and bizarre inputs that crash the system, your
users certainly will.
A QA engineer walks into a bar. Orders a beer.
Orders 0 beers. Orders 99999999999 beers. Orders
a lizard. Orders -1 beers.
—Brenan Keller
This especially applies to functions that validate their inputs,
because the validation may well be insufficient. For example,
consider this code:


func DoRequests(reqs int) error {
    if reqs == 0 {
        return errors.New("number of requests must be n
    }
    ... // do requests
}
What’s wrong with this? If it’s well tested, we will have already
verified that it does the right thing with values of reqs such as
5, 10, or 100. And because the error behaviour is part of the API,
we will also have tested that DoRequests(0) returns an error.
So what are we missing?
To figure that out, think like a QA engineer ordering a beer… or,
in this case, ordering -1 beers. No sane person would ever ask the
function to do a negative number of requests, would they? What
would that even mean? I don’t know, but since it’s possible, we
need to make sure the system does something sensible in that
case, such as returning an error.
It happens, in this example, that we can use Go’s type system to
enforce the requirement that reqs be non-negative, by declaring
it as uint instead of int:
func DoRequests(reqs uint) error {
A test that tries to call DoRequests with a negative number,
such as -1, won’t even compile when we do this. Instead, we’ll
get a build error:
cannot use -1 (untyped int constant) as uint
value in argument
to DoRequests (overflows)
This is a big advantage of statically typed languages such as Go:
we can use the compiler to enforce a number of useful
preconditions, such as non-negativity. We can think of the type
system, indeed, as being a key part of our tests:
The type system is the set of tests that the language


designer could think up without ever seeing your
program.
—Michael Feathers, “Testing Patience”
So that’s one way to solve the “feeble validation” problem, but
maybe not the best way. The fact that we can’t compile a test like
DoRequests(-1) means we can’t use that case as a regression
test, to catch any future bugs we might introduce to the
validation code.
So it may be a better idea to handle this by tightening up our if
statement instead. It should check not just that reqs is not zero,
but that it’s also not negative:
func DoRequests(reqs int) error {
    if reqs < 1 {
        return errors.New("number of requests must be >
    }
    ... // do requests
}
When designing test inputs, then, try to think of things that
nominally can’t happen, or that only a crazy person would do,
and test them. If you don’t, then as we’ve seen, your users will
test them for you. It’s been wisely said that a good programmer
is one who looks both ways before crossing a one-way street.
User testing
Another good source of crazy user inputs is actually using the
software yourself, to the extent that it’s usable at this point. If you
have any kind of a runnable program yet, run it, and see what
inputs you can find that cause breakage, or other weird
behaviour. Mash the buttons until something interesting
happens. You probably won’t have to mash too long. Once


you’ve found a bug, add a test case for it, make it pass, and go
back to button-mashing.
Margaret Hamilton, a NASA programmer and one of the most
distinguished software engineers of the 20th century, describes
an incident that occured while she was developing the flight
control software for the Apollo spacecraft:
I would take my six-year-old daughter to work on
nights and weekends, and she would watch me
testing out the software. She got very interested, and
started “playing astronaut”, and all of a sudden the
system crashed.
I realised she had selected P01 (a pre-launch
program) during “flight”. I started to worry about
what if the astronauts did what she just did, and I
went to the management saying “I think we need to
put a change in.” They said, “Won’t ever happen.
The astronauts are well-trained, they don’t make
mistakes.”
On the next mission, Apollo 8, this very thing
happened.
—Margaret Hamilton, “The Language as a
Software Engineer”
The lesson is clear: users have a blithe disregard for what they’re
not supposed to do, whether they’re astronauts or six-year-olds.
Don’t listen to anyone who tells you not to worry about
something because “users shouldn’t do that”. Expect the
impossible, and test for it.
You can improve the user experience of your programs a great
deal by simply being a user of them. What’s the first thing most
people do with some new program? Run it without any
arguments, perhaps. Try this with one of your own programs.
Does it do something helpful? Something unhelpful? Crash?
Delete files without asking?


Many developers find it hard to put themselves into the mindset
of a typical user, yet this is easier than you might think. After all,
you and I are users of other people’s programs, and we know
how frustrating an experience that can be from time to time. We
don’t know what to do, so we try something apparently sensible,
but it doesn’t work. We don’t know that users shouldn’t do that.
When you use your own software in this way, you’re bound to
find all sorts of problems. Better to find them early, before it gets
too expensive to fix them.
Don’t rely on actual users to submit bug reports: most people
don’t do this. Instead, if your software doesn’t seem to be
working for them, they’ll usually just find some other way to
solve their problem. So an absence of user bug reports doesn’t
mean your program is perfect. It’s just that users don’t care as
much about your program’s correctness as you do.
Put yourself in the place of a user who wants to solve their
problem, yet knows nothing about your program, and try things
that they might try. Do those things work? If not, make them
work. Just as writing test code will show what’s wrong with your
API, using your program will show you what’s wrong with its
user interface.
Roll up your sleeves and try to break your
application. Use a destructive mindset and come up
with ways to provoke issues and errors in your
application. Document everything you find for later.
Watch out for bugs, design issues, slow response
times, missing or misleading error messages and
everything else that would annoy you as a user of
your software.
—Ham Vocke, “The Practical Test Pyramid”
Above all, don’t dismiss the problems you find as mere “usability
issues”, to be solved by better documentation, or training. They
are bugs. Fix them, guided by tests.


The developer said, “After a few crashes, they’ll
learn. Smart people learn fast not to do things that
make the system crash.”
Developers can’t control what “smart” people will
learn. Perhaps users will learn to assume that the
product could crash and lose data at any moment.
Perhaps they will learn to avoid using this product
at all. Perhaps they will learn the merits of working
with a competing product.
—Gerald Weinberg, “Perfect Software: And
Other Illusions About Testing”
And the quicker you can get the software in front of real users
(that is, someone who’s not you), the better. They will certainly
find all sorts of problems you wouldn’t have thought of. Fixing
them now will be easier and cheaper than fixing them later.
If you can’t find real users to test the system on, your fellow
programmers will do nearly as well. Enlist their help:
A hallway usability test is where you grab the next
person that passes by in the hallway and force them
to try to use the code you just wrote. If you do this
to five people, you will learn 95% of what there is
to learn about usability problems in your code.
—Joel Spolsky, “The Joel Test: 12 Steps to Better
Code”
If possible, be present while they try out the software, but in any
case have them record their screen and voice during the test.
Give them one or two typical user problems to solve using the
system, and ask them to give a running commentary on what
they’re thinking and what they’re trying to achieve at each stage.
You should stay silent and resist the urge to intervene and help
them. Remember, the goal is to discover what they can’t do
without your help.
You’ll find this kind of feedback is invaluable, though you’ll also


feel a strong temptation to say to yourself, “But users shouldn’t
do that!”
User testing doesn’t stop when the software goes to production—
indeed, that’s when it really starts. Make sure that all the
responsible developers get detailed reports from the tech support
department on every problem that users have reported. Don’t let
some well-meaning person filter out things like usability
problems before they get to you: insist on seeing every support
ticket that relates to the parts of the system you’re responsible
for.
You’ll find lots of bugs of all kinds this way, and, naturally, you
should fix them guided by tests, so that they’re fixed not just for
now, but forever.
Crafting bespoke bug detectors
We’ve discussed choosing effective test inputs in an adversarial
way, picking likely boundary values, and so on. Depending on
the kind of behaviour under test, there are also lots of classic
“weird inputs” that professional testers know and love: long
strings, accented characters, huge numbers, illegal values of all
kinds. If the program asks for an IP address, try giving it
999.999.999.999 and see what happens.
We can and should attack the system with all these kinds of
adversarial inputs, but we can do even more. Because we know
exactly how the system is implemented, we have a good idea of
what kind of bugs might be lurking in it.
If the code ranges over a slice, try passing it a nil slice, or one
with no elements. If it takes a pointer, give it nil. If it writes to
files, check what would happen if there is no disk space available
or the filesystem is not writable (this is hard to simulate in a test,
but you can check the code manually to see how it would handle
the situation).
Read over the system code carefully, asking yourself at each
stage “What could go wrong here?” Verify your ideas with tests.
Even if it happens that the system does handle these problems


right now, capturing them as tests ensures that no one can
introduce such a bug in the future.
Table tests and subtests
Assuming we’ve managed to generate a bunch of effective test
inputs, by various means, how should we organise them for
testing in a logical, readable way?
In the first chapter we saw an example of a table test, one that
performs the same check for each of a set of test cases. These are
typically given as a slice of Go structs of some arbitrary type,
chosen to suit the test.
We usually don’t bother to name this type, since we won’t need a
name for it: it’s just a convenient way of organising the data.
Here’s what our ListItems test cases look like if we rewrite
them using an anonymous struct:
func TestListItems(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    cases := []struct {
        input []string
        want  string
    }{


        {
            input: []string{},
            want:  "",
        },
        {
            input: []string{
                "a battery",
            },
            want: "You can see a battery here.",
        },
        ... // and so on
(Listing game/9)
For each case, we’ll call ListItems with the input and check
its result against want. If any case fails, we’ll see the diff
between want and got.
This is fine, but sometimes we’d like to be more explicit about
precisely which test case is failing. In other words, as well as
showing how want differed from got, we’d like to say
something about which input caused this problem.
We could, of course, include input in the message generated by
t.Errorf or t.Fatalf. But since there might be several places
where the test can fail, it’s tedious to include the input in each
message, and for large input slices, it’ll also obscure the
message.
Even reporting the input that caused the failure might not be
enough information. To be as helpful as possible, we’d like to
give a descriptive name to each test case. One way to do this is to
set out our test cases in the form of a map, keyed by suitably
informative strings:


func TestListItems(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    cases := map[string]struct {
        input []string
        want  string
    }{
        "no items": {
            input: []string{},
            want:  "",
        },
        "one item": {
            input: []string{
                "a battery",
            },
            want: "You can see a battery here.",
        },
        ... // and so on
(Listing game/10)
This is already an improvement, because we could simply loop
over these as we did before and print out the name of the case for
each failure. But we can do better, by using the t.Run method:


for name, tc := range cases {
    t.Run(name, func(t *testing.T) {
        got := game.ListItems(tc.input)
        if tc.want != got {
            t.Error(cmp.Diff(tc.want, got))
        }
    })
}
(Listing game/10)
Note first that in looping over a map with range we get two
values, the name, and the tc struct it identifies. Inside this loop,
we then call t.Run with two arguments: the name we just
obtained, and a function literal of this form:
func(t *testing.T) { ... }
This function is called a subtest in Go. When any subtest fails, its
name is printed out automatically as a prefix to the failure
message:
--- FAIL: TestListItems/two_items (0.00s)
    game_test.go:46:   strings.Join({
        "You can see here a battery",
    +   ",",
        " and a key.",
        }, "")
In this example, we can see that the parent test is
TestListItems, and this particular failing case—this subtest—
is named two items. In the failure output, any spaces in the
name of a subtest are replaced with underscores, so this is
printed as `two_items’.
The subtest name often describes the inputs, but we can use it to
add any labelling information that would be helpful. For
example, if this case reproduces a reported bug, we could use the
bug ID as the subtest name. Or if the inputs are chosen to trigger


a specific problem, we could name the subtest after that problem
(for example, “invalid input data”).
An interesting side effect of organising our test cases as a Go map
is that the range loop will iterate over them in some unspecified
order. After all, map keys have no inherent ordering, and that’s
useful in this context.
Suppose there were some hidden bug in the system that caused
our test cases to pass only when run in a certain order. Looping
over a map of cases would be likely to expose this, since the
iteration order is unstable and is likely to change from one run to
the next.
Table tests group together similar cases
Table tests are a powerful idea, but sometimes people get a bit
too attached to them, and start trying to turn everything into a
table test. For example, they might try to mix valid and invalid
input cases in the same test:
tcs := []struct {
    {
        input: -1,
        wantError: true,
    },
    {
        input: 0,
        wantError: false,
    },


    ... // and so on
}
This can lead to some complicated logic in the subtest body,
because now there are two kinds of possible cases: ones with
valid input that are expected to succeed, and ones with invalid
input that are expected to fail. In other words, the subtest would
need to look something like this:
if tc.wantError {
    ... // test as an invalid input case
} else {
    ... // test as a valid input case
}
That’s complicated both to write and to read, and also
unnecessary. We can simplify the whole thing by just splitting it
into two tests, one for valid input and one for invalid input. Each
can have subtests, but now the subtest body itself is shorter and
simpler, because it knows exactly what kind of case it has to deal
with.
Watch out for this kind of smell in your own tests. Any time we
have some if statement in the test body that selects different
test logic based on something about the case, we should probably
refactor into multiple tests, one for each kind of case we have.
Conversely, we can say that any time we’re testing the exact same
thing about a set of different inputs, we have a good candidate
for a table test.
Just a note of warning: many IDEs have built-in facilities for
generating table tests automatically. Indeed, the only kind of test
they seem to know about is a table test. For example, if you put
the cursor on some function in VS Code and run the Go: Generate
Unit Tests for Function command, it generates a table test with a
slice of test case structs, inviting you to fill in the missing data.


I don’t recommend you use this feature. It can pressure you into
trying to test the function, not its behaviour, by jamming different
kinds of cases into a single test where they don’t really belong.
And, as we’ve seen, named subtests are better organised as a map
than as a slice.
Using dummy names to mark irrelevant test inputs
In the examples we’ve seen so far, the test inputs and
expectations have been pretty small, and we’ve simply quoted
them directly in the test as literals. What kinds of data does it
make sense to use in this situation?
Actually, we should distinguish between two kinds of test data:
relevant to the test, and irrelevant. For example:
func TestGreetingReturnsCorrectGreetingForLanguage(t *t
    t.Parallel()
    u := user.New("刘慈欣")
    u.Language = "Chinese"
    want := "你好"
    got := u.Greeting()
    if want != got {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing user/4)
In this test, we create some user named 刘慈欣, set his preferred
language to Chinese, and check that the system’s generated
greeting for him is “你好”, which should make all civilised


persons feel right at home.
We have two pieces of test input data here: the user’s name, and
his language setting. Which of these is relevant to the test, and
which is irrelevant? It’s not instantly clear to the reader.
In fact, it turns out that the user’s name has no effect whatosever
on the greeting generated by the system. That is entirely
determined by the language setting.
So the user’s name is irrelevant: changing it wouldn’t affect the
test. We could signal that by using an obviously fake name as the
data:
u := user.New("Fake User")
That makes it really clear that the value passed to CreateUser
can’t affect the test, because we’d be unlikely to write a system
that has some special behaviour when the username is “Fake
User”. If we had, that would be a mistake, because we can’t
safely assume that no real person has that name.
On the other hand, the language value “Chinese” is important to
this test. If we changed it to “Spanish”, we might instead expect
a greeting like “¿Que tal?”
If the language were not relevant, on the other hand, we could
indicate that by using an obviously fake value here:
u.Language = "Bogus Language"
And the fact that we haven’t done that tells the reader to pay
attention to the Language value. By using the name of a real
language, we’re signalling that it’s relevant to the behaviour
under test.
Another example: suppose we have some CallAPI function that
takes an authentication token. And suppose the test looks like
this:
token := "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1N"


got, err := CallAPI(req, token)
Is the value of token relevant to the test here? We can’t tell. It
looks like it could be a real token. On the other hand, if we used
a different token value, then maybe it would affect the test, and
maybe it wouldn’t.
Instead, let’s send a clear signal to the reader, by choosing a
value that’s obviously fake:
got, err := CallAPI(req, "dummy token")
Now the reader can easily infer that CallAPI doesn’t care about
the token, at least under the conditions of this test. It has to be
there syntactically, and an empty string wouldn’t have been a
useful substitute: the reader might well wonder if it’s important
that it be empty.
By using the string “dummy token”, we spell out the fact that it
doesn’t matter. Small signals like this, consistently applied, can
make it much easier to readers to understand the purpose of a
test.
Use data that makes the tests easy to read and
follow. You are writing tests to an audience. Don’t
scatter data values around just to be scattering data
values around. If there is a difference in the data,
then it should be meaningful.
—Kent Beck, “Test-Driven Development by
Example”
Outsourcing test data to variables or functions
Sometimes the data can be quite large, and putting it in the test
code can be distracting and create clutter. What could we do
instead?
One answer is to use variables for the data. This has the
advantage that we can give the variable an informative name
(validInput), and by moving it outside the test, up to package
level, we keep the test free of visual clutter.


For example:
func TestParseHandlesValidInput(t *testing.T) {
    got, err := parse.Parse(validInput)
    ... // check the results
}
var validInput = `TGlzdGVuaW5nIGlzIGxvdmUuCuKAlEplYW4gS
This is helpful when it doesn’t matter what the data actually is.
In other words, the exact contents of the string validInput are
irrelevant to the test. What the reader needs to know is simply
that it is an example of valid input.
Clarity in code is often as much a matter of what you don’t say as
of what you do. By “not saying” the value of the input data, we
avoid distracting the reader, who might otherwise wonder “Do I
need to read this string? Are its contents significant in some
way?” No, and no, our test says.
It often happens that many tests can use the same pieces of data.
For example, there might be several tests that can use the
validInput variable, and by doing so we helpfully declutter all
those tests as well as reducing duplication.
Note that we gave the variable definition after the test that uses
it. In general, it’s a good idea to put your test functions first in
any test file, and then follow them with all the variables, helpers,
and so on. The ordering makes no difference to Go, but it makes
a big difference to readers, who expect to see the most important
things first.
Sometimes what’s relevant about a piece of data is not its actual
contents or validity, but just that it’s very large. For example, to
test that a function doesn’t blow up when given a string of length
10,000, we’d like to have such a string defined as a variable.


It would be annoying to have to type out such a string, and
wasteful to store it in the source code, so a better idea is just to
use some code to generate it on the fly:
var longInput = strings.Repeat("a", 10_000)
If generating the data is a little more complicated, perhaps
involving several steps, we can call a function literal to construct
it instead:
var complicatedInput = func() string {
    ... // lots of steps here
    return result
}()
Note the trailing parentheses (): the value of
complicatedInput will be the result of this function, not the
function itself. Tests that use this input data can reference the
variable directly:
func TestParseHandlesComplicatedInput(t *testing.T) {
    got, err := parse.Parse(complicatedInput)
    ... // check the results
}
Because the var statement is executed just once, when the
program starts, we don’t need to wastefully re-compute that
complicated input value every time a test needs it.
A danger lurks here, though. A global variable is a good way to
share data between tests, when it can safely be shared. On the
other hand, some types of data are not safe to share.
For example, maps and slices are reference types: even if you
create copies of the value, they all refer to the same underlying


piece of memory.
Suppose we need some map of string to int in multiple tests,
and we define it as a global variable in the test package, like this:
var ageData = map[string]int {
        "sam": 18,
        "ashley": 72,
        "chandra": 38,
}
Even parallel tests can safely use this ageData variable, so long
as they don’t try to modify it. But if they do, or if the system
code they’re calling happens to modify its input, that will change
the data stored in ageData. Now other tests will be using the
modified data, which can lead to very confusing results.
Instead, we need to create a new, independent ageData map
value for every test that wants to use it. We can do this by
writing a function that returns the map:
func makeAgeData() map[string]int {
    return map[string]int{
        "sam":     18,
        "ashley":  72,
        "chandra": 38,
    }
}
It’s worth noting that, unlike in the previous


complicatedInput example, we’re not calling the function
here, merely defining it. That’s because we don’t want to create a
single map value that will be re-used by every test.
Instead, we want each test to have a way to create its own
independent map value, by calling the makeAgeData function:
func TestTotalReturnsTotalOfSuppliedAges(t *testing.T)
    t.Parallel()
    want := 128
    got := ages.Total(makeAgeData())
    if want != got {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
The test (and the function) can now do whatever they like with
the ageData, including modifying it, without worrying about
corrupting the data used by other tests.
Use functions to safely construct any kind of test input that
contains maps and slices, including structs whose fields are maps
or slices.
Loading test data from files
Using a global variable is a good way to move bulky data out of
the test function itself, but sometimes that data can become very
large (say, more than a few dozen lines), or there can be many
pieces of it. In this case, to avoid cluttering the source code, it’s a
good idea to put the test data in a file instead.
Conventionally, we put these files in a folder named testdata,
since the Go tools will ignore any folder with this name when


looking for packages. To open and load these files, we can use
plain ordinary Go code:
data, err := os.Open("testdata/hugefile.txt")
if err != nil {
    t.Fatal(err)
}
defer data.Close()
... // read from 'data'
Note that if there’s any error opening hugefile.txt, we need
to stop the test with t.Fatal right away, since we won’t be able
to use the file as input.
Once we’ve successfully opened the file, we defer closing it, so
as not to hold open any unnecessary file handles during the test
run.
Since file operations tend to be at least an order of magnitude
slower than reading the same data from memory, it’s a good idea
to avoid having tests open files unless it’s really necessary.
In particular, avoid opening a file just to create an io.Reader,
if that’s what the function needs to take. Use
strings.NewReader instead to create a reader from static
data:
input := strings.NewReader("hello world")
// 'input' implements 'io.Reader'
got, err := parse.ParseReader(input)
...
Similarly, don’t create a file just to get an io.Writer value. If


the function under test takes a writer, and we don’t care what
goes into it, we don’t even need a strings.Reader. Instead,
we can just use the predeclared io.Discard, which is a writer
to nowhere:
// writes to 'io.Discard' are ignored
tps.WriteReportTo(io.Discard)
On the other hand, if the test needs to look at the writer
afterwards, to see what the function actually wrote to it, then we
can use a *bytes.Buffer:
buf := &bytes.Buffer{}
tps.WriteReportTo(buf)
want := "PC Load Letter"
got := buf.String()
Readers and writers versus files
If you find yourself having to create or open a file because the
function under test expects a *os.File, this might be a smell.
Does the function really need a file, or does it just need an
io.Reader or io.Writer?
It depends. If the function just wants to read bytes from
somewhere, you can pass it an io.Reader. If it needs to write
bytes somewhere (for example, printing text), use an
io.Writer. This is convenient for users, since lots of things
implement io.Reader/Writer. And it’s handy for testing: a
*bytes.Buffer implements both interfaces.
On the other hand, if the function is really about operating on
files, not just streams of bytes, then we can’t use those interfaces.
For example, if it needs to call methods on its argument that are
specific to *os.File, such as Name, or Stat, then we have to
pass it a file.


A good place for such files is the testdata folder, and it’s
helpful to name them after the kind of input data they represent.
For example, we might create two input files, valid.txt, and
invalid.txt.
The filesystem abstraction
Another useful interface for functions to accept, especially when
their job is to deal with trees of files on disk, is fs.FS—usually
referred to as a filesystem.
I’ve covered Go filesystems in detail in The Power of Go: Tools,
though if you haven’t read that book yet, the relevant chapter is
also available as a blog post titled Walking with Filesystems: Go’s
new fs.FS interface.
Suffice it to say, for our purposes, that fs.FS is a standard
library interface that usually represents a tree of files on disk.
We use a filesystem when we want to recursively visit each file
or directory in the tree it represents. For example:
fsys := os.DirFS("/home/john/go")
results := find.GoFiles(fsys)
In this example, fsys represents a real disk filesystem, but
fs.FS can also be easily implemented by some in-memory
structure. Since all I/O operations are much, much slower than
accessing memory, and physical spinning disks are especially
slow, we’d prefer not to do any unnecessary disk access in our
tests.
A convenient in-memory filesystem is provided by
fstest.MapFS:


fsys := fstest.MapFS{
    "file.go":                {},
    "subfolder/subfolder.go": {},
    "subfolder2/another.go":  {},
    "subfolder2/file.go":     {},
}
results := find.GoFiles(fsys)
The function doesn’t care what’s under the hood of fsys: for all
it knows, these are real files on disk. But our test is much faster,
because fsys isn’t having to do any disk I/O: it’s using a Go map
instead, meaning that all its operations happen in memory.
Using t.TempDir for test output with cleanup
When you need to pass a function a pathname to write data to,
the best choice is usually to call t.TempDir to get the name of a
per-test temporary directory. As we’ve seen earlier in this book,
the directory created by TempDir is automatically deleted at the
end of the test, together with its contents.
Even though the file will be created in a temporary directory, it’s
a good idea to name the file itself after the test or subtest that
creates it. That way, if the file ends up in the wrong place, or
gets left lying around by mistake, you’ll at least know where it
came from. For example:
image.Generate(t.TempDir()+"/test_generate.png")
A useful method here is t.Name, which returns the name of the
current test or subtest. You can use this instead of an arbitrary
name:
image.Generate(t.TempDir()+"/"+t.Name()+".png")
Managing golden files
One common use of files in tests is as golden files. As we saw in
an earlier chapter, a golden file contains the expected output
from some process, and we can compare it against the actual


output to see whether it’s correct.
Ideally, we would get this golden data straight from some test
oracle, such as the legacy system we’re replacing. The test is then
simply a matter of checking how close this is to the current
output from the function:
func TestWriteReportFile_ProducesCorrectOutputFile(t *t
    t.Parallel()
    output := t.TempDir() + "/" + t.Name()
    tps.WriteReportFile(output)
    want, err := os.ReadFile("testdata/output.golden")
    if err != nil {
        t.Fatal(err)
    }
    got, err := os.ReadFile(output)
    if err != nil {
        t.Fatal(err)
    }
    if !cmp.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing tps/1)


This test reads both files into memory for simplicity, but this
obviously limits the size of the data it can handle. If your
program generates huge output files, you’ll need to compare them
in a more efficient way, such as computing their hash sums, or
comparing them a chunk at a time. For example, you could use
io.ReadFull to read a chunk of bytes at a time from each
reader, and then bytes.Equal to compare them.
You’ll sometimes see advice to implement an -update flag in
your test package, to automatically update your golden files. The
effect of this flag is to assume that the current output of the
function under test is correct, and to use it to overwrite the
contents of the golden file.
I don’t think this is a good idea, partly because it adds
complication and magic to your tests, and you’d really need a
separate flag for each golden file you use. But the most serious
objection to an -update flag is that it provides a very easy and
automated way to render your tests useless.
Suppose, for example, that you make a minor change to some file
generation routine that creates megabytes of output data. And
suppose that you rigorously scrutinise every byte of that output
to make sure it’s correct, and finally you run go test -update
to overwrite your golden file. Well, from now on your test will
always pass, since you’ve defined the required behaviour as
whatever the function currently does.
You might be very diligent in checking the output before
committing an updated golden file, but someone else might not
be so careful. Sooner or later, someone will make a mistake. And
from that point on, we’ll be in a very uncomfortable situation,
because the test will say that everything’s okay when, in fact, the
system is incorrect.
Worse, if someone should change the system to have the correct
behaviour, the test will immediately fail! It takes considerable
strength of mind to overrule a failing test, and in any case a good
deal of time will probably be wasted figuring out what’s gone
wrong.


The best golden file, then, is real data, taken from some external
oracle or system. The next best is hand-rolled data, carefully
constructed by someone who knows exactly what the output
should look like. When this format needs to change, change the
golden file manually.
The very last resort, and something we should avoid if at all
possible, is to use the system itself to generate the golden data, for
the reasons we’ve discussed. If this ever has to be done, the
results should be checked rigorously, and then manually updated
as the requirements evolve.
We don’t want to make it easy to change this critical data, on
which the correctness of the whole system depends. Rather, we
want changing the golden data to be a big deal, so while an -
update flag is a neat idea, I think the risks probably outweigh
the benefits.
Dealing with cross-platform line endings
If you’re managing your source code using Git, as you most likely
are, there’s another point to watch out for when using golden
files. Git has a configuration setting named autocrlf, which
auto-translates linebreak characters to suit the convention of the
operating system you’re using.
As you may know, Windows uses a different line-ending
convention from other operating systems. Consequently, Git tries
to help you out by auto-translating the line endings to something
appropriate for your system.
This means that your golden files, if they contain text, will look
different on different operating systems. When compared
directly, they will produce a diff showing a missing \r on each
line:
-   "Hello world\r\n",
+   "Hello world\n",
This can be puzzling if you’re not aware of the line ending issue,
since the tests will pass on non-Windows systems.


One solution to this is to add a .gitattributes file to the root
directory of your repo, with the following contents:
* -text
This tells Git to treat all files (*) in the repo as not text (-text).
In other words, to treat all files as binary, with no line ending
translation. This should fix the problem, and users with up-to-
date versions of Windows and text editors such as Notepad will
have no problem editing the files if they want to.
What about the inputs you didn’t think of?
In this chapter we’ve discussed various ways of picking and
organising specific input values, chosen in advance for their
effectiveness at flushing out bugs in the system. And most of the
tests we write will be like this, but for a sufficiently non-trivial
problem, there will always be inputs we can’t imagine or just
don’t happen to think of.
To supplement our hand-picked test inputs, then, it’s also often
useful to generate inputs randomly in various ways. We’ll learn
more about this process in the next chapter.
