1. Programming with
confidence
It seemed that for any piece of software I wrote,
after a couple of years I started hating it, because it
became increasingly brittle and terrifying.
Looking back in the rear-view, I’m thinking I was
reacting to the experience, common with untested
code, of small changes unexpectedly causing large
breakages for reasons that are hard to understand.
—Tim Bray, “Testing in the Twenties”
When you launch yourself on a software engineering career, or
even just a new project, what goes through your mind? What are
your hopes and dreams for the software you’re going to write?
And when you look back on it after a few years, how will you
feel about it?


There are lots of qualities we associate with good software, but
undoubtedly the most important is that it be correct. If it doesn’t
do what it’s supposed to, then almost nothing else about it
matters.
Self-testing code
How do we know that the software we write is correct? And,
even if it starts out that way, how do we know that the minor
changes we make to it aren’t introducing bugs?
One thing that can help give us confidence about the correctness
of software is to write tests for it. While tests are useful whenever
we write them, it turns out that they’re especially useful when
we write them first. Why?
The most important reason to write tests first is that, to do that,
we need to have a clear idea of how the program should behave,
from the user’s point of view. There’s some thinking involved in
that, and the best time to do it is before we’ve written any code.
Why? Because trying to write code before we have a clear idea of
what it should do is simply a waste of time. It’s almost bound to
be wrong in important ways. We’re also likely to end up with a
design which might be convenient from the point of view of the
implementer, but that doesn’t necessarily suit the needs of users at
all.
Working test-first encourages us to develop the system in small
increments, which helps prevent us from heading too far down
the wrong path. Focusing on small, simple chunks of user-visible
behaviour also means that everything we do to the program is
about making it more valuable to users.
Tests can also guide us toward a good design, partly because
they give us some experience of using our own APIs, and partly
because breaking a big program up into small, independent,
well-specified modules makes it much easier to understand and
work on.
What we aim to end up with is self-testing code:


You have self-testing code when you can run a
series of automated tests against the code base and
be confident that, should the tests pass, your code is
free of any substantial defects.
One way I think of it is that as well as building your
software system, you simultaneously build a bug
detector that’s able to detect any faults inside the
system. Should anyone in the team accidentally
introduce a bug, the detector goes off.
—Martin Fowler, “Self-Testing Code”
This isn’t just because well-tested code is more reliable, though
that’s important too. The real power of tests is that they make
developers happier, less stressed, and more productive as a
result.
Tests are the Programmer’s Stone, transmuting fear
into boredom. “No, I didn’t break anything. The
tests are all still green.” The more stress I feel, the
more I run the tests. Running the tests immediately
gives me a good feeling and reduces the number of
errors I make, which further reduces the stress I feel.
—Kent Beck, “Test-Driven Development by
Example”
The adventure begins
Let’s see what writing a function test-first looks like in Go.
Suppose we’re writing an old-fashioned text adventure game, like
Zork, and we want the player to see something like this:
Attic
The attics, full of low beams and awkward
angles, begin here in a relatively tidy area which
extends north, south and east. You can see here
a battery, a key, and a tourist map.
Adventure games usually contain lots of different locations and


items, but one thing that’s common to every location is that we’d
like to be able to list its contents in the form of a sentence:
You can see here a battery, a key, and a tourist
map.
Suppose we’re storing these items as strings, something like this:
a battery
a key
a tourist map
How can we take a bunch of strings like this and list them in a
sentence, separated by commas, and with a concluding “and”? It
sounds like a job for a function; let’s call it ListItems.
What kind of test could we write for such a function? You might
like to pause and think about this a little.
One way would be to call the function with some specific inputs
(like the strings in our example), and see what it returns. We can
predict what it should return when it’s working properly, so we
can compare that prediction against the actual result.
Here’s one way to write that in Go, using the built-in testing
package:
func TestListItems(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()


    input := []string{
        "a battery",
        "a key",
        "a tourist map",
    }
    want := "You can see here a battery, a key, and a t
    got := game.ListItems(input)
    if want != got {
        t.Errorf("want %q, got %q", want, got)
    }
}
(Listing game/1)
Don’t worry too much about the details for now; we’ll deal with
them later. The gist of this test is as follows:
1. We call the function game.ListItems with our test
inputs.
2. We check the result against the expected string.
3. If they’re not the same, we call t.Errorf, which causes
the test to fail.
Note that we’ve written this code as though the
game.ListItems function already exists. It doesn’t. This test is,
at the moment, an exercise in imagination. It’s saying if this
function existed, here’s what we think it should return, given this
input.
But it’s also interesting that we’ve nevertheless made a number
of important design decisions as an unavoidable part of writing
this test. First, we have to call the function, so we’ve decided its
name (ListItems), and what package it’s part of (game).
We’ve also decided that its parameter is a slice of strings, and
(implicitly) that it returns a single result that is a string. Finally,
we’ve encoded the exact behaviour of the function into the test
(at least, for the given inputs), by specifying exactly what the
function should produce as a result.
The original description of test-driven development


was in an ancient book about programming. It said
you take the input tape, manually type in the output
tape you expect, then program until the actual
output tape matches the expected output.
When describing this to older programmers, I often
hear, “Of course. How else could you program?”
—Kent Beck
Naming something and deciding its inputs, outputs, and
behaviour are usually the hardest decisions to make about any
software component, so even though we haven’t yet written a
single line of code for ListItems, we’ve actually done some
pretty important thinking about it.
And the mere fact of writing the test has also had a significant
influence on the design of ListItems, even if it’s not very
visible. For example, if we’d just gone ahead and written
ListItems first, we might well have made it print the result to
the terminal. That’s fine for the real game, but it would be
difficult to test.
Testing a function like TestItems requires decoupling it from
some specific output device, and making it instead a pure
function: that is, a function whose result is deterministic, depends
on nothing but its inputs, and has no side-effects.
Functions that behave like this tend to make a system easier to
understand and reason about, and it turns out that there’s a deep
synergy between testability and good design, which we’ll return
to later in this book.
Verifying the test
So what’s the next step? Should we go ahead and implement
ListItems now and make sure the test passes? We’ll do that in
a moment, but there’s a step we need to take first. We need some
feedback on whether the test itself is correct. How could we get
that?


It’s helpful to think about ways the test could be wrong, and see if
we can work out how to catch them. Well, one major way the
test could be wrong is that it might not fail when it’s supposed
to.
Tests in Go pass by default, unless you explicitly make them fail,
so a test function with no code at all would always pass, no
matter what:
func TestAlwaysPasses(t *testing.T) {}
That test is so obviously useless that we don’t need to say any
more. But there are more subtle ways to accidentally write a
useless test. For example, suppose we mistakenly wrote
something like this:
if want != want {
    t.Errorf("want %q, got %q", want, got)
}
A value always equals itself, so this if statement will never be
true, and the test will never fail. We might spot this just by
looking at the code, but then again we might not.
I’ve noticed that when I teach Go to my students, this is a
concept that often gives them trouble. They can readily imagine
that the function itself might be wrong. But it’s not so easy for
them to encompass the idea that the test could be wrong. Sadly,
this is something that happens all too often, even in the best-
written programs.
Until you’ve seen the test fail as expected, you don’t really
have a test.
So we can’t be sure that the test doesn’t contain logic bugs unless
we’ve seen it fail when it’s supposed to. When should the test fail,
then? When ListItems returns the wrong result. Could we
arrange that? Certainly we could.


That’s the next step, then: write just enough code for ListItems
to return the wrong result, and verify that the test fails in that
case. If it doesn’t, we’ll know we have a problem with the test
that needs fixing.
Writing an incorrect function doesn’t sound too difficult, and
something like this would be fine:
func ListItems(items []string) string {
    return ""
}
Almost everything here is dictated by the decisions we already
made in the test: the function name, its parameter type, its result
type. And all of these need to be there in order for us to call this
function, even if we’re only going to implement enough of it to
return the wrong answer.
The only real choice we need to make here, then, is what actual
result to return, remembering that we want it to be incorrect.
What’s the simplest incorrect string that we could return given
the test inputs? Just the empty string, perhaps. Any other string
would also be fine, provided it’s not the one the test expects, but
an empty string is the easiest to type.
Running tests with go test
Let’s run the test and check that it does fail as we expect it to:
go test
--- FAIL: TestListItems (0.00s)
    game_test.go:18: want "You can see here a
battery, a key, and
    a tourist map.", got ""
FAIL
exit status 1
FAIL    game    0.345s


Reassuring. We know the function doesn’t produce the correct
result yet, so we expected the test to detect this, and it did.
If, on the other hand, the test had passed at this stage, or perhaps
failed with some different error, we would know there was a
problem. But it seems to be fine, so now we can go ahead and
implement ListItems for real.
Here’s one rough first attempt:
func ListItems(items []string) string {
    result := "You can see here"
    result += strings.Join(items, ", ")
    result += "."
    return result
}
(Listing game/1)
I really didn’t think too hard about this, and I’m sure it shows.
That’s all right, because we’re not aiming to produce elegant,
readable, or efficient code at this stage. Trying to write code
from scratch that’s both correct and elegant is pretty hard. Let’s
not stack the odds against ourselves by trying to multi-task here.
In fact, the only thing we care about right now is getting the code
correct. Once we have that, we can always tidy it up later. On
the other hand, there’s no point trying to beautify code that
doesn’t work yet.
The goal right now is not to get the perfect answer
but to pass the test. We’ll make our sacrifice at the
altar of truth and beauty later.
—Kent Beck, “Test-Driven Development by
Example”


Let’s see how it performs against the test:
--- FAIL: TestListItems (0.00s)
    game_test.go:18: want "You can see here a
battery, a key, and
    a tourist map.", got "You can see herea
battery, a key, a
    tourist map."
Well, that looks close, but clearly not exactly right. In fact, we
can improve the test a little bit here, to give us a more helpful
failure message.
Using cmp.Diff to compare results
Since part of the result is correct, but part isn’t, we’d actually like
the test to report the difference between want and got, not just
print both of them out.
There’s a useful third-party package for this, go-cmp. We can
use its Diff function to print just the differences between the
two strings. Here’s what that looks like in the test:
func TestListItems(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    input := []string{
        "a battery",
        "a key",
        "a tourist map",


    }
    want := "You can see here a battery, a key, and a t
    got := game.ListItems(input)
    if want != got {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing game/2)
Here’s the result:
--- FAIL: TestListItems (0.00s)
    game_test.go:20:   strings.Join({
                "You can see here",
        -       " ",
                "a battery, a key,",
        -       " and",
                " a tourist map.",
          }, "")
When two strings differ, cmp.Diff shows which parts are the
same, which parts are only in the first string, and which are only
in the second string.
According to this output, the first part of the two strings is the
same:
"You can see here",
But now comes some text that’s only in the first string (want).
It’s preceded by a minus sign, to indicate that it’s missing from
the second string, and the exact text is just a space, shown in
quotes:
-       " ",
So that’s one thing that’s wrong with ListItems, as detected by
the test. It’s not including a space between the word “here” and
the first item.


The next part, though, ListItems got right, because it’s the
same in both want and got:
"a battery, a key,",
Unfortunately, there’s something else present in want that is
missing from got:
-       " and",
We forgot to include the final “and” before the last item. The two
strings are otherwise identical at the end:
" a tourist map.",
You can see why it’s helpful to show the difference between want
and got: instead of a simple pass/fail test, we can see how close
we’re getting to the correct result. And if the result were very
long, the diff would make it easy to pick out which parts of it
weren’t what we expected.
Let’s make some tweaks to ListItems now to address the
problems we detected:
func ListItems(items []string) string {
    result := "You can see here "
    result += strings.Join(items[:len(items)-1], ", ")
    result += ", and "
    result += items[len(items)-1]
    result += "."
    return result
}
(Listing game/3)


A bit ugly, but who cares? As we saw earlier, we’re not trying to
write beautiful code at this point, only correct code. This
approach has been aptly named “Shameless Green”:
The most immediately apparent quality of
Shameless Green code is how very simple it is.
There’s nothing tricky here. The code is gratifyingly
easy to comprehend. Not only that, despite its lack
of complexity this solution does extremely well.
—Sandi Metz & Katrina Owen, “99 Bottles of
OOP: A Practical Guide to Object-Oriented
Design”
In other words, shameless green code passes the tests in the
simplest, quickest, and most easily understandable way possible.
That kind of solution may not be the best, as we’ve said, but it
may well be good enough, at least for now. If we suddenly had to
drop everything and ship right now, we could grit our teeth and
ship this.
So does ListItems work now? Tests point to yes:
go test
PASS
ok      game    0.160s
The test is passing, which means that ListItems is behaving
correctly. That is to say, it’s doing what we asked of it, which is
to format a list of three items in a pleasing way.
New behaviour? New test.
Are we asking enough of ListItems with this test? Will it be
useful in the actual game code? If the player is in a room with
exactly three items, we can have some confidence that
ListItems will format them the right way. And four or more
items will probably be fine too.
What about just two items, though? From looking at the code,
I’m not sure. It might work, or it might do something silly.


Thinking about the case of one item, though, I can see right away
that the result won’t make sense.
The result of formatting a slice of no items clearly won’t make
sense either. So what should we do? We could add some code to
ListItems to handle these cases, and that’s what many
programmers would do in this situation.
But hold up. If we go ahead and make that change, then how will
we know that we got it right? We can at least have some
confidence that we won’t break the formatting for three or more
items, since the test would start failing if that happened. But we
won’t have any way to know if our new code correctly formats
two, one, or zero items.
We started out by saying we have a specific job that we want
ListItems to do, and we defined it carefully in advance by
writing the test. ListItems now does that job, since it passes
the test.
If we’re now deciding that, on reflection, we want ListItems to
do more, then that’s perfectly all right. We’re allowed to have
new ideas while we’re programming: indeed, it would be a
shame if we didn’t.
But let’s adopt the rule “new behaviour, new test”. Every time
we think of a new behaviour we want, we have to write a test for
it, or at least extend an existing passing test so that it fails for the
case we’re interested in.
That way, we’ll be forced to get our ideas absolutely clear before
we start coding, just like with the first version of ListItems.
And we’ll also know when we’ve written enough code, because
the test will start passing.
This is another point that I’ve found my students sometimes have
difficulty with. Often, the more experienced a programmer they
are, the more trouble it gives them. They’re so used to just going
ahead and writing code to solve the problem that it’s hard for
them to insert an extra step in the process: writing a new test.


Even when they’ve written a function test-first to start with, the
temptation is then to start extending the behaviour of that
function, without pausing to extend the test. In that case, just
saying “New behaviour, new test” is usually enough to jog their
memory. But it can take a while to thoroughly establish this new
habit, so if you have trouble at first, you’re not alone. Stick at it.
Test cases
We could write some new test functions, one for each case that
we want to check, but that seems a bit wasteful. After all, each
test is going to do exactly the same thing: call ListItems with
some input, and check the result against expectations.
Any time we want to do the same operation repeatedly, just with
different data each time, we can express this idea using a loop. In
Go, we usually use the range operator to loop over some slice of
data.
What data would make sense here? Well, this is clearly a slice of
test cases, so what’s the best data structure to use for each case?
Each case here consists of two pieces of data: the strings to pass
to ListItems, and the expected result. Or, to put it another
way, input and want, just like we have in our existing test.
One of the nice things about Go is that any time we want to
group some related bits of data into a single value like this, we
can just define some arbitrary struct type for it. Let’s call it
testCase:
func TestListItems(t *testing.T) {
    type testCase struct {
        input []string
        want  string
    }


    ...
(Listing game/4)
How can we refactor our existing test to use the new testCase
struct type? Well, let’s start by creating a slice of testCase
values with just one element: the three-item case we already
have.
...
cases := []testCase{
    {
        input: []string{
            "a battery",
            "a key",
            "a tourist map",
        },
        want:
        "You can see here a battery, a key, and a touri
    },
}
...
(Listing game/4)
What’s next? We need to loop over this slice of cases using
range, and for each case, we want to pass its input value to
ListItems and compare the result with its want value.


...
for _, tc := range cases {
    got := game.ListItems(tc.input)
    if tc.want != got {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(tc.want, got))
    }
}
(Listing game/4)
This looks very similar to the test we started with, except that
most of the test body has moved inside this loop. That makes
sense, because we’re doing exactly the same thing in the test, but
now we can do it repeatedly for multiple cases.
This is commonly called a table test, because it checks the
behaviour of the system given a table of different inputs and
expected results. Here’s what it looks like when we put it all
together:


func TestListItems(t *testing.T) {
    type testCase struct {
        input []string
        want  string
    }
    cases := []testCase{
        {
            input: []string{
                "a battery",
                "a key",
                "a tourist map",
            },
            want:
            "You can see here a battery, a key, and a t
        },
    }
    for _, tc := range cases {
        got := game.ListItems(tc.input)
        if tc.want != got {
            t.Error(cmp.Diff(tc.want, got))
        }
    }
}
(Listing game/4)
First, let’s make sure we didn’t get anything wrong in this
refactoring. The test should still pass, since it’s still only testing
our original three-item case:
PASS


ok      game    0.222s
Great. Now comes the payoff: we can easily add more cases, by
inserting extra elements in the cases slice.
Adding cases one at a time
What new test cases should we add at this stage? We could add
lots of cases at once, but since we feel pretty sure they’ll all fail,
there’s no point in that.
Instead, let’s treat each case as describing a new behaviour, and
tackle one of them at a time. For example, there’s a certain way
the system should behave when given two inputs instead of three,
and it’s distinct from the three-item case. We’ll need some special
logic for it.
So let’s add a single new case that supplies two items:
{
    input: []string{
        "a battery",
        "a key",
    },
    want: "You can see here a battery and a key.",
},
(Listing game/5)
The value of want is up to us, of course: what we want to
happen in this case is a product design decision. This is what I’ve
decided I want, with my game designer hat on, so let’s see what
ListItems actually does:
--- FAIL: TestListItems (0.00s)


    game_test.go:36:   strings.Join({
            "You can see here a battery",
        +   ",",
            " and a key.",
          }, "")
Not bad, but not perfect. It’s inserting a comma after “battery”
that shouldn’t be there.
Now let’s try to fix that. For three or more items, we’ll always
want the comma, and for two, one, or zero items, we won’t. So
the quickest way to get this test to pass is probably to add a
special case to ListItems, when len(items) is less than 3:
func ListItems(items []string) string {
    result := "You can see here "
    if len(items) < 3 {
        return result + items[0] + " and " + items[1] +
    }
    result += strings.Join(items[:len(items)-1], ", ")
    result += ", and "
    result += items[len(items)-1]
    result += "."
    return result
}
(Listing game/5)
Again, this isn’t particularly elegant, nor does it need to be. We
just need to write the minimum code to pass the current failing


test case. In particular, we don’t need to worry about trying to
pass test cases we don’t have yet, even if we plan to add them
later:
Add one case at a time, and make it pass before adding the
next.
The test passes for the two cases we’ve defined, so now let’s add
the one-item case:
{
    input: []string{
        "a battery",
    },
    want: "You can see a battery here.",
},
(Listing game/6)
Note the slightly different word order: “you can see here a
battery” would sound a little odd.
Let’s see if this passes:
--- FAIL: TestListItems (0.00s)
panic: runtime error: index out of range [1]
with length 1
[recovered]
Oh dear. ListItems is now panicking, so that’s even worse than
simply failing. In the immortal words of Wolfgang Pauli, it’s “not
even wrong”.
Quelling a panic
Panics in Go are accompanied by a stack trace, so we can work


our way through it to see which line of code is the problem. It’s
this one:
return result + items[0] + " and " + items[1] +
"."
This is being executed in the case where there’s only one item
(items[0]), so we definitely can’t refer to items[1]: it doesn’t
exist. Hence the panic.
Let’s treat the one-item list as another special case:
func ListItems(items []string) string {
    result := "You can see here "
    if len(items) == 1 {
        return "You can see " + items[0] + " here."
    }
    if len(items) < 3 {
        return result + items[0] + " and " + items[1] +
    }
    result += strings.Join(items[:len(items)-1], ", ")
    result += ", and "
    result += items[len(items)-1]
    result += "."
    return result
}


(Listing game/6)
This eliminates the panic, and the test now passes for this case.
Let’s keep going, and add the zero items case. What should we
expect ListItems to return?
{
    input: []string{},
    want:  "",
},
(Listing game/7)
Just the empty string seems reasonable. We could have it
respond “You see nothing here”, but it would be a bit weird to
get that message every time you enter a location that happens to
have no items in it, which would probably be true for most
locations.
Running this test case panics again:
--- FAIL: TestListItems (0.00s)
panic: runtime error: index out of range [0]
with
length 0 [recovered]
And we can guess what the problem is without following the
stack trace: if items is empty, then we can’t even refer to
items[0]. Another special case:
if len(items) == 0 {
    return ""
}
(Listing game/7)


This passes.
Refactoring
We saw earlier that it doesn’t matter how elegant the code for
ListItems looks, if it doesn’t do the right thing. So now that it
does do the right thing, we’re in a good place, because we have
options. If we had to ship right now, this moment, we could
actually do that. We wouldn’t be delighted about it, because the
code is hard to read and maintain, but users don’t care about
that. What they care about is whether it solves their problem.
But maybe we don’t have to ship right now. Whatever extra time
we have in hand, we can now use to refactor this correct code to
make it nicer. And, while there’s always a risk of making
mistakes or introducing bugs when refactoring, we have a safety
net: the test.
The definition of “refactoring”, by the way, is changing code
without changing its behaviour in any relevant way. Since the test
defines all the behaviour we consider relevant, we can change
the code with complete freedom, relying on the test to tell us the
moment the code starts behaving differently.
Since we have four different code paths, depending on the
number of input items, we can more elegantly write that as a
switch statement with four cases:


func ListItems(items []string) string {
    switch len(items) {
    case 0:
        return ""
    case 1:
        return "You can see " + items[0] + " here."
    case 2:
        return "You can see here " + items[0] + " and "
            items[1] + "."
    default:
        return "You can see here " +
            strings.Join(items[:len(items)-1], ", ") +
            ", and " + items[len(items)-1] + "."
    }
}
(Listing game/8)
Did we break anything or change any behaviour? No, because
the test still passes. Could we have written ListItems from the
start using a switch statement, saving this refactoring step? Of
course, but we’ve ended up here anyway, just by a different
route.
In fact, all good programs go through at least a few cycles of
refactoring. We shouldn’t even try to write the final program in a
single attempt. Instead, we’ll get much better results by aiming
for correct code first, then iterating on it a few times to make it
clear, readable, and easy to maintain.
Writing is basically an iterative process. It is a rare
writer who dashes out a finished piece; most of us
work in circles, returning again and again to the
same piece of prose, adding or deleting words,
phrases, and sentences, changing the order of
thoughts, and elaborating a single sentence into
pages of text.
—Dale Dougherty & Tim O’Reilly, “Unix Text


Processing”
Well, that was easy
No doubt there’s more refactoring we could do here, but I think
you get the point. We’ve developed some correct, reasonably
readable code, with accompanying tests that completely define
the behaviour users care about.
And we did it without ever having to really think too hard. There
were no brain-busting problems to solve; we didn’t have to
invent any complicated algorithms previously unknown to
computer science, or that you might be tested on in some job
interview. We didn’t use any advanced features of Go, just basic
strings, slices, and loops.
That’s a good thing. If code is hard to write, it’ll be hard to
understand, and even harder to debug. So we want the code to be
easy to write.
Everyone knows that debugging is twice as hard as
writing a program in the first place. So if you’re as
clever as you can be when you write it, how will
you ever debug it?
—Brian Kernigan & P.J. Plauger, “The Elements
of Programming Style”
If we find that writing the code is hard, we’ll reduce the scope of
our ambition so that we’re solving some simpler problem instead.
We’ll keep simplifying the problem in this way until the code
becomes easy and obvious. Then we can gradually build back up
to the real problem we started with.
At every stage in this process, we had the confidence that comes
from having a good test. It caught our occasional missteps,
showed us from moment to moment how close we were getting
to the correct solution, and what still remained to be done.
As we generated new ideas during development, it was easy to
add them as new test cases, and we only had to do a very little


work to make them pass. Once we had all the cases passing, we
were able to confidently refactor the entire function, without
worrying about breaking anything or introducing subtle bugs.
If you’re not used to this way of programming with tests, it might
all seem a bit long-winded for a relatively simple function. But
the process is a lot quicker to do than it is to explain step by step.
In a real-life programming situation, it would probably take me a
couple of minutes to write this test, two or three minutes to get it
passing, and maybe another couple of minutes to refactor the
code. Let’s generously say ten minutes is a reasonable time to
build something like ListItems using this workflow.
Could we do it faster if we didn’t bother about the test? Perhaps.
But significantly faster? I doubt it. To write a working
ListItems from scratch that handles all these cases would take
me a good ten minutes, I think. Indeed, it would actually be
harder work, because I’d have to think very carefully at each
stage and painstakingly work out whether the code is going to
produce the correct result.
Even then, I wouldn’t be completely confident that it was correct
without seeing it run a few times, so I’d have to go on and write
some throwaway code just to call ListItems with some inputs
and print the result. And it probably wouldn’t be correct, however
carefully and slowly I worked. I would probably have missed out
a space, or something. So I’d have to go back and fix that.
It will feel slow at first. The difference is, when
we’re done, we’re really done. Since we’re getting
closer to really done, the apparent slowness is an
illusion. We’re eliminating most of that long, painful
test-and-fix finish that wears on long after we were
supposed to be done.
—Ron Jeffries, “The Nature of Software
Development”
In other words, the test-first workflow isn’t slow at all, once
you’re familiar with it. It’s quick, enjoyable, and productive, and


the result is correct, readable, self-testing code.
Watching an experienced developer build great software fast,
guided by tests, can be a transformative experience:
I grew a reporting framework once over the course
of a few hours, and observers were absolutely
certain it was a trick. I must have started with the
resulting framework in mind. No, sorry. I’ve just
been test driving development long enough that I can
recover from most of my mistakes faster than you
can recognize I’ve made them.
—Kent Beck, “Test-Driven Development by
Example”
Sounds good, now what?
Maybe you’re intrigued, or inspired, by the idea of programming
with confidence, guided by tests. But maybe you still have a few
questions. For example:
•  How does Go’s testing package work? How do we write
tests to communicate intent? How can we test error
handling? How do we come up with useful test data? What
about the test cases we didn’t think of?
•  What if there are bugs still lurking, even when the tests are
passing? How can we test things that seem untestable, like
concurrency, or user interaction? What about command-
line tools?
•  How can we deal with code that has too many
dependencies, and modules that are too tightly coupled?
Can we test code that talks to external services like
databases and network APIs? What about testing code that
relies on time? And are mock objects a good idea? How
about assertions?
•  What should we do when the codebase has no tests at all?
For example, legacy systems? Can we refactor and test


them in safe, stress-free ways? What if we get in trouble
with the boss for writing tests? What if the existing tests
are no good? How can we improve testing through code
review?
•  How should we deal with tests that are optimistic,
persnickety, over-precise, redundant, flaky, failing, or just
slow? And how can tests help us improve the design of the
system overall?
Well, I’m glad you asked. Enjoy the rest of the book.
