9. Flipping the script
By relieving the brain of all unnecessary work, a
good notation sets it free to concentrate on more
advanced problems.
—Alfred North Whitehead, “An Introduction to
Mathematics”
Testing CLI tools in Go by running the binary directly can get
complicated, as we mentioned in the previous chapter. We’d
have to execute the Go tool to build the binary, then execute the
binary, passing it arbitrary arguments, and then we’d have to
check the exit status, parse the output, and so on.
That sounds like hard work, so let’s not do that. Instead, let’s flip
the script.
In the real world, we’ll probably end up running these tools from
some shell, using a command line. So what if we could write Go


tests for our tools using a simplified kind of shell script?
The testscript package lets us do exactly that. Let’s try it out.
Introducing testscript
testscript defines a little “language” for writing test scripts,
which we store as separate files in our project, along with our Go
source code.
Let’s see a simple example of such a script:
exec echo 'hello world'
stdout 'hello world\n'
(Listing script/1)
Pretty straightforward! You can probably guess what this does
right away. The exec line runs echo 'hello world', just as
though we’d typed this command line at the terminal.
On the next line, stdout asserts something about the expected
output of the program we just ran: that it contains at least the
string hello world, followed by a newline.
That’s all very well, but what does it have to do with Go? How,
in other words, can we actually run such a script from a Go test,
and connect its results with that of the test? testscript takes
care of this too.
Let’s take our simple hello world script, then, and write a Go
test that runs it:


package script_test
import (
    "testing"
    "github.com/rogpeppe/go-internal/testscript"
)
func TestScript(t *testing.T) {
    testscript.Run(t, testscript.Params{
        Dir: "testdata/script",
    })
}
(Listing script/1)
There’s nothing special about the name TestScript, by the
way; we could have called it TestAnything. This is just an
ordinary Go test function, so far. The interesting part for us here
is the call to testscript.Run. What’s that about?
You’ll notice that we pass our test’s t as an argument, suggesting
that testscript.Run could use it to fail the test. That makes
sense, since Run’s job is to run a bunch of test scripts, each of
which acts as a (parallel) subtest of TestScript.
The other thing we pass to testscript.Run is a Params struct
which, as you probably guessed, supplies configuration
parameters. The Dir parameter gives the path to the directory
where our script files will live.
In our example, we’ve set it to testdata/script, though
again the script here has no special meaning. We can put test
scripts in any convenient subfolder of testdata.
Let’s go ahead and create the testdata/script folder, and
add a file in it named hello.txtar containing the text of our
little example script:


exec echo 'hello world'
stdout 'hello world\n'
(Listing script/1)
We’ll see what the txtar extension means shortly, but first, let’s
give this a try.
Provided that we’ve set everything up correctly, running our Go
tests now will tell testscript to run this script, and the parent
TestScript test will pass or fail depending on its result. Let’s
see what happens:
go test
PASS
Encouraging!
Running programs with exec
So what does the test script actually do? To put it another way,
what are we really testing here?
Here’s the first line again:
exec echo 'hello world'
(Listing script/1)
This tells testscript to execute the program echo, with the
single command-line argument hello world. The effect of this
is just as though the “user” had typed echo 'hello world' at
the terminal.
This exec statement, though, is more than just a way of running
programs; it’s also an assertion. The program we execute must
succeed: that is, its exit status must be zero. Otherwise, the exec
assertion fails.
If this, or any other assertion in the script, fails, then the script
terminates at that point. In other words, it acts like t.Fatal in


a Go test. It marks the subtest as failed and exits, skipping the
rest of the script.
So the simplest way we can test our programs using
testscript is to use exec to run them directly from a test
script, and see if they succeed. Each script runs in its own unique
temporary work directory, which will be automatically cleaned up
after the script exits.
The work directory starts empty, which helps to make tests
reproducible. If the program panics when some file or directory
it relies on is not present, for example, we’d detect that as soon
as we tried to run it from a script.
This is the kind of problem that’s typically very difficult to catch
in ordinary tests, because it only happens when you actually run
the program.
What’s true of every bug found in the field? It
passed all the tests!
—Rich Hickey, “Simple Made Easy”
So test scripts go a long way to closing that “works on my
laptop” loophole. If we could only run programs with certain
arguments and assert their exit status, that would still be useful
in itself, but we can do more.
Here’s the second line of the script again:
stdout 'hello world\n'
(Listing script/1)
This is another assertion, this time about the contents of the
standard output from the previous exec statement (we’ll see
how to match standard error shortly).
stdout asserts that the output will match some regular
expression, in this case the string hello world followed by a
newline.


The program can output more than that, but this script asserts
that it produces at least hello world\n somewhere among its
output. If it doesn’t, the stdout assertion will fail, and this
subtest will fail as a result.
We can see what that looks like by changing the stdout
assertion to one that definitely won’t succeed:
exec echo 'hello world'
stdout 'goodbye world\n'
We think this should fail the test, so let’s see what happens.
Interpreting testscript output
We deliberately set up this test script to make it fail, and here’s
the result:
go test
--- FAIL: TestScript (0.00s)
    --- FAIL: TestScript/hello (0.00s)
        testscript.go:397:
            > exec echo 'hello world'
            [stdout]
            hello world
            > stdout 'goodbye world\n'
            FAIL: testdata/script/hello.txtar:2:
no match for
            `goodbye world\n` found in stdout
There are a few interesting things about this output to note. First,
the failing parent test is TestScript, and the name of the
failing subtest represented by the script is hello. That’s derived
from the filename of the script, hello.txtar, but without the
.txtar extension:
--- FAIL: TestScript/hello (0.00s)
Each line of the script is shown in the test output as it’s executed,
prefixed by a > character:


> exec echo 'hello world'
The standard output of the program run by exec is shown next
in the test output:
[stdout]
hello world
And here’s the line that actually triggered the test failure:
> stdout 'goodbye world\n'
FAIL: testdata/script/hello.txtar:2: no match
for
`goodbye world\n` found in stdout
The stdout assertion is failing, because the program’s output
didn’t match the given expression, so the test fails. Notice that as
well as printing the failing line itself, the message also gives the
script filename and line number where we can find it:
testdata/script/hello.txtar:2
Remember, all of this is happening because we invoked the script
in our Go test named TestScript:
func TestScript(t *testing.T) {
    testscript.Run(t, testscript.Params{
        Dir: "testdata/script",
    })
}
(Listing script/1)
It’s important to note that the TestScript function, even
though it’s a Go test, doesn’t test anything directly by itself.
Its job here is merely to invoke testscript.Run, delegating
the actual testing to the scripts stored in testdata/script. At


the moment we have only one script file in that directory, but if
we were to add more, they would all be run as parallel subtests
of TestScript.
How should we organise our test scripts, then? We could put all
the scripts for the whole project in a single directory, and run
them from a single test using testscript.Run. That’s fine, but
if there are many scripts, you may prefer to put them in separate
directories and run them from distinct tests. Most projects,
though, seem to get by just fine with a single directory of test
scripts.
By the way, if we want to run just one specific script, we can do
that too. Because each script is a subtest, we can run it in the
same way as we would any individual test or subtest: by giving
its name along with the -run flag to go test:
go test -run TestScript/hello
It’s a good idea to keep each script fairly small and focused on
one or two related behaviours. For example, you might have one
script for checking the various kinds of “invalid input”
behaviour, and another for the happy path. A script that does too
much is difficult to read and understand, just like a test that does
too much.
The testscript language
Test scripts are not shell scripts, though they look quite similar
(we’ll talk about some of the important differences later in this
chapter). Neither are they Go code. Instead, they’re written in
testscript’s own domain-specific language (DSL), dedicated
purely to running programs and asserting things about their
behaviour.
The point of the testscript DSL is not to be a general-purpose
programming language, or even to replace all tests written in Go.
Like all the best tools, it does one thing well: it provides an
elegant notation for writing automated tests of command-line
programs.


Its keywords include the ones we’ve already seen, exec and
stdout, plus a few others that we’ll talk about later in this
chapter. And its syntax is about as simple as it could possibly be,
but no simpler.
A good way to think about the testscript DSL is as a kind of
restricted, single-purpose version of the Unix shell. Restricted,
but by no means restrictive: we can do some pretty sophisticated
things with it, as we’ll see in the rest of this chapter.
A really good language should be both clean and
dirty: cleanly designed, with a small core of well
understood and highly orthogonal operators, but
dirty in the sense that it lets hackers have their way
with it.
—Paul Graham, “Hackers & Painters: Big Ideas
from the Computer Age”
Negating assertions with the ! prefix
We’ve seen that we can use stdout to assert that a program’s
standard output matches some regular expression. What else can
we assert in a script?
Interestingly, we can also assert something that the program’s
output mustn’t match, by prefixing the stdout line with a !
character.
exec echo 'hello world'
! stdout 'hello world\n'
The ! is the equivalent of Go’s “not” operator, so we can think of
it as meaning “not” here, too. We’re asserting that the standard
output of the program run by the previous exec should not
match the expression hello world\n.
What’s the result of running this script? Well, the exec
command line certainly does produce this output, so we’d expect
our ! stdout assertion to fail. Indeed, that’s the case:


> ! stdout 'hello world\n'
FAIL: testdata/script/hello.txtar:2: unexpected
match for
`hello world\n` found in stdout: hello world
We can also use the ! operator to negate other assertions: for
example, exec.
As we saw earlier, an exec by itself asserts that the given
program succeeds: that is, returns zero exit status. What would !
exec assert, then?
As you might expect, the effect of ! exec is to assert that the
program fails: in other words, that its exit status is not zero.
Let’s try using it with the cat program, which among other
things will print the contents of any file it’s given.
If we try to use cat to print some file that doesn’t exist in the
work directory, then, it should return a non-zero exit status. We
can write that as an assertion using ! exec:
! exec cat doesntexist
(Listing script/1)
Why would we want to assert that running a certain command
fails? Well, that’s the expected behaviour of a command-line tool
when the user specifies some invalid flag or argument, for
instance. It’s conventional to print an error message and exit
with a non-zero exit status in this case.
For example, the public API of the cat program says that it
should fail when given a non-existent file as argument. Our !
exec example asserts exactly that behaviour.
What about the error message behaviour? Could we test that
too? Conventionally, programs print error messages on the
standard error stream, rather than standard output. In practice,
both streams usually go to the same place (the user’s terminal,
for example), but they’re independent in principle, and we can
test them independently.


We’re already familiar with stdout, so it’s not surprising that
the corresponding assertion for matching standard error is named
stderr:
! exec cat doesntexist
stderr 'cat: doesntexist: No such file or directory'
(Listing script/1)
This asserts, not only that the given cat command fails, but also
that it produces the expected message on its standard error
stream.
In fact, we can go even further. Because, in this case, we don’t
expect cat to print anything to its standard output at all, we can
assert that too, using ! stdout:
! exec cat doesntexist
stderr 'cat: doesntexist: No such file or directory'
! stdout .
(Listing script/1)
Recall that the argument to stdout or stderr is a regular
expression. Since the regular expression . matches any text, the
effect of the third line here is to assert that the program produces
no output on stdout.
The combined effect of these three lines, then, is to assert that:
•  cat doesntexist fails
•  it prints the expected message to stderr, and
•  it prints nothing to stdout
What if we want to test that a program invoked with valid
arguments prints standard output, but no standard error? In that
case, we can write, for example:


exec echo success
stdout 'success'
! stderr .
(Listing script/1)
This script asserts that:
•  echo success succeeds
•  it prints the expected message to stdout, and
•  it prints nothing to stderr
Passing arguments to programs
As we’ve seen in many of the examples so far, we can pass
arguments to the program run by exec, by putting them after the
program name:
# Execute 'echo', with the argument 'success'
exec echo success
It’s important to know exactly how these arguments are passed to
the program, though. Each space-separated word is treated as a
distinct argument, unless those words are grouped together
inside single quotes. This can make a big difference to how the
program interprets them.
For example, suppose we want to give a program some argument
that contains spaces, such as the filename data file.txt. This
wouldn’t work:
exec cat data file.txt
Because data and file.txt are passed as distinct arguments to
cat, it thinks we’re referring to two distinct files. Instead, we
need to quote the filename, with single quotes:
exec cat 'data file.txt'
And, since the single quote character has this special effect of


grouping space-separated arguments, you might be wondering
how we can write a literal single quote character when we need
to.
To do that, we write two consecutive single quote characters, as in
this example:
exec echo 'Here''s how to escape single quotes'
This prints:
Here's how to escape single quotes
Importantly, and unlike in shell scripts, double quote characters
have no quoting effect in test scripts. They’re simply treated as
literal double quote characters:
exec echo "This will print with literal double quotes"
Unlike the single quote, the double quote character has no
special meaning in test scripts, so it will simply be passed on to
the program as part of its arguments. This gives the following
output, including the double quotes:
"This will print with literal double quotes"
Watch out for this, as it’s easy to accidentally use double quotes
when you meant to use single quotes.
Testing CLI tools with testscript
If all we could do with testscript were to run existing
programs with certain arguments, and assert that they succeed
(or fail), and produce certain outputs (or not), that would still be
pretty useful.
But we’re not limited to running existing programs. If we want to
test our own binary, for example, we don’t have to go through all
the labour of compiling and installing it first, in order to execute
it in a script. testscript can save us the trouble. Let’s see
how.


Suppose we’re writing a program named hello, for example,
whose job is simply to print a “hello world” message on the
terminal. As it’s an executable binary, it will need a main
function. Something like this would do:
func main() {
    fmt.Println("hello world")
}
How can we test this? The main function can’t be called directly
from a Go test; it’s invoked automatically when we run the
compiled binary. We can’t test it directly.
So we’ll instead delegate its duties to some other function that
we can call from a test: hello.Main, let’s say.
We’ll do nothing in the real main function except call
hello.Main to do the printing, and then exit with whatever
status value it returns:
func main() {
    status := hello.Main()
    os.Exit(status)
}
(Listing hello/1)
Fine. So we can deduce from this what the signature of
hello.Main needs to be. It takes no arguments, and it returns
an int value representing the program’s exit status. Let’s write
it:


package hello
import "fmt"
func Main() int {
    fmt.Println("hello world")
    return 0
}
(Listing hello/1)
This is a very simple program, of course, so it doesn’t have any
reason to report a non-zero exit status, but it could if it needed
to. Here, we just explicitly return 0, so the program will always
succeed.
Now that we’ve delegated all the real functionality of the
program to this hello.Main function, we could call it from a Go
test if we wanted to. But that wouldn’t invoke it as a binary, only
as a regular Go function call, which isn’t really what we want
here. For example, we probably want different values of
os.Args for each invocation of the program.
What we need to do instead is to tell testscript to make our
program available to scripts as a binary named hello. Here’s
what that looks like in our Go test code:
func TestMain(m *testing.M) {
    os.Exit(testscript.RunMain(m, map[string]func() int
        "hello": hello.Main,
    }))
}
(Listing hello/1)
The function TestMain is special to Go: it doesn’t test anything


itself, but its job is usually to set something up in advance, before
any test actually runs.
What this TestMain is doing is calling testscript.RunMain.
What does that do? Well, it runs all our Go tests, but before it
does that, it also sets up any custom programs that we want to
use in scripts.
To do that, we pass this map to RunMain, connecting the name
of our desired binary (hello) with its delegate main function
(hello.Main):
map[string]func() int{
    "hello": hello.Main,
}
This tells testscript to create an executable binary named
hello, whose main function will call hello.Main. This binary
will be installed in a temporary directory (not the script’s work
directory), and that directory will be added to the $PATH
variable in the environment of all our scripts.
If the magic works the way it should, then, we’ll be able to use
exec in a script to run the hello program, just as if we’d
compiled and installed it manually. After the tests have finished,
the binary and its temporary directory will be deleted
automatically.
Let’s give it a try. We’ll create a script with the following
contents:
exec hello
stdout 'hello world\n'
(Listing hello/1)
Now we’ll add a test that runs this script using
testscript.Run, as before:


func TestHello(t *testing.T) {
    testscript.Run(t, testscript.Params{
        Dir: "testdata/script",
    })
}
(Listing hello/1)
Here’s the result of running go test:
PASS
It worked! But are we really executing the binary implemented
by hello.Main, or does there just happen to be some unrelated
program named hello somewhere on our system? You can’t be
too careful these days.
To find out, let’s change the hello.Main function to print
something slightly different, and see if that makes the test fail.
This ought to prove that testscript is really running the
program we think it is:
func HelloMain() int {
    fmt.Println("goodbye world")
    return 0
}
Here’s the result:
> exec hello
[stdout]
goodbye world
> stdout 'hello world\n'
FAIL: testdata/script/hello.txtar:2: no match


for `hello world\n`
found in stdout
Proof positive that we’re executing the right hello program, I
think you’ll agree. Let’s also check that returning anything other
than 0 from hello.Main causes the exec assertion to fail, as
we would expect:
func HelloMain() int {
    fmt.Println("hello world")
    return 1
}
Here’s the result:
> exec hello
[stdout]
hello world
[exit status 1]
FAIL: testdata/script/hello.txt:1: unexpected
command failure
One thing to be careful of when defining custom commands in
this way is to remember to call os.Exit with the result of
testscript.RunMain. For example, suppose we were to write
a TestMain like this:
func TestMain(m *testing.M) {
    testscript.RunMain(m, map[string]func() int{
        "hello": hello.Main,
    })
    // oops, forgot to use 'status'
}


This looks reasonable, but the status value returned by RunMain
(which is the exit status of our custom command) is ignored.
Implicitly, we exit with a zero exit status, meaning that the
hello command would always appear to “succeed”, regardless
of what hello.Main actually returns.
So if you find that your custom command always succeeds, even
when it’s supposed to fail, check that you have the necessary call
to os.Exit in TestMain.
Great. Now we can test that our program succeeds and fails when
it should. What about more complicated behaviours, such as
those involving command-line arguments?
For example, let’s extend our hello program to take a
command-line argument, and fail if it’s not provided. Since all
the real work is done in hello.Main, that’s where we need to
make this change:
func Main() int {
    if len(os.Args[1:]) < 1 {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, "usage: hello NAME")
        return 1
    }
    fmt.Println("Hello to you,", os.Args[1])
    return 0
}
(Listing hello/2)
This program now has two behaviours. When given an argument,
it should print a greeting using that argument, and succeed. On
the other hand, when the argument is missing, it should print an
error message and fail.


Let’s test both behaviours in the same script:
# With no arguments, fail and print a usage message
! exec hello
! stdout .
stderr 'usage: hello NAME'
# With an argument, print a greeting using that value
exec hello Joumana
stdout 'Hello to you, Joumana'
! stderr .
(Listing hello/2)
The ability to define and run custom programs in this way is the
key to using testscript to test command-line tools. We can
invoke the program with whatever arguments, environment
variables, and supporting files are required to test a given
behaviour. In this way we can test even quite complex
behaviours with a minimum of code.
And that’s no surprise, because testscript is derived directly
from the code used to test the Go tool itself, which is probably as
complex a command-line tool as any. It’s part of the very handy
go-internal repository:
https://github.com/rogpeppe/go-internal
Checking the test coverage of scripts
One especially neat feature of testscript is that it can even
provide us with coverage information when testing our binary.
That’s something we’d find hard to do if we built and executed
the binary ourselves, but testscript makes it work seemingly


by magic:
go test -coverprofile=cover.out
PASS
coverage: 0.0% of statements
total coverage: 100.0% of statements
Though the first figure shows 0% coverage, this only tells us
what percentage of statements are executed directly, by being
called from our Go tests, and the answer is zero. Instead, our
hello.Main function is being executed indirectly, in a
subprocess.
The figure to look at here, then, is the “total coverage”. This
gives the percentage of statements executed by scripts. Since our
hello script executes both of the two possible code paths in
hello.Main, it covers it completely. Thus, 100% of statements.
Just to check that this is really being calculated properly, let’s try
deliberately reducing the coverage, by testing only the happy
path behaviour in our script:
# With an argument, print a greeting using that value
exec hello Joumana
stdout 'hello to you, Joumana'
! stderr .
We’re no longer causing the “if no arguments, error” code path
to be executed, so we should see the total coverage go down:
total coverage: 60.0% of statements
Since we’ve generated a coverage profile (the file cover.out),
we can use this with the go tool cover command, or our IDE.
As we saw in the chapter on mutation testing, the coverage
profile can show us exactly which statements are and aren’t
executed by tests (including test scripts). If there are important


code paths we’re not currently covering, we can add or extend
scripts so that they test those behaviours, too.
As we discussed in that chapter, test coverage isn’t always the
most important guide to the quality of our tests, since it only
proves that statements were executed, not what they do. But it’s
very useful that we can test command-line tools and other
programs as binaries using testscript, without losing our test
coverage statistics.
Comparing output with files using cmp
Let’s look at some more sophisticated ways we can test input and
output from command-line tools using testscript.
For example, suppose we want to compare the program’s output
not against a string or regular expression, but against the
contents of a file. As we’ve seen in previous chapters, these are
sometimes referred to as golden files.
We can supply a golden file as part of the script file itself,
delimiting its contents with a special marker line beginning and
ending with a double hyphen (--).
Here’s an example:
exec hello
cmp stdout golden.txt
-- golden.txt --
hello world
(Listing hello/1)
The marker line containing golden.txt begins a file entry:
everything following the marker line will be written to
golden.txt and placed in the script’s work directory before it
starts executing. We’ll have more to say about file entries in a


moment, but first, let’s see what we can do with this file.
The cmp assertion can compare two files to see if they’re the
same. If they match exactly, the test passes. If they don’t, the
failure will be accompanied by a diff showing which parts didn’t
match.
If the program’s output doesn’t match the golden file, as it won’t
in this example, we’ll see a failure message like this:
> exec hello
[stdout]
hello world
> cmp stdout golden.txt
--- stdout
+++ golden.txt
@@ -1,1 +0,0 @@
-hello world
@@ -0,0 +1,1 @@
+goodbye world
FAIL: testdata/script/hello.txtar:2: stdout and
golden.txt differ
Alternatively, we can use ! to negate the comparison, in which
case the files must not match, and the test will fail if they do:
exec echo hello
! cmp stdout golden.txt
-- golden.txt --
goodbye world
(Listing hello/1)
The first argument to cmp can be the name of a file, but we can
also use the special name stdout, meaning the standard output
of the previous exec. Similarly, stderr refers to the standard


error output.
If the program produces different output depending on the value
of some environment variable, we can use the cmpenv assertion.
This works like cmp, but interpolates environment variables in
the golden file:
exec echo Running with home directory $HOME
cmpenv stdout golden.txt
-- golden.txt --
Running with home directory $HOME
(Listing hello/1)
When this script runs, the $HOME in the echo command will be
expanded to the actual value of the HOME environment variable,
whatever it is. But because we’re using cmpenv instead of cmp,
we also expand the $HOME in the golden file to the same value.
So, assuming the command’s output is correct, the test will pass.
This prevents our test from flaking when its behaviour depends
on some environment variable that we don’t control, such as
$HOME.
More matching: exists, grep, and -count
Some programs create files directly, without producing any
output on the terminal. If we just want to assert that a given file
exists as a result of running the program, without worrying about
the file’s contents, we can use the exists assertion.
For example, suppose we have some program myprog that writes
its output to a file specified by the -o flag. We can check for the
existence of that file after running the program using exists:
exec myprog -o results.txt


exists results.txt
And if we are concerned about the exact contents of the results
file, we can use cmp to compare it against a golden file:
exec myprog -o results.txt
cmp results.txt golden.txt
-- golden.txt --
hello world
If the two files match exactly, the assertion succeeds, but
otherwise it will fail and produce a diff showing the mismatch. If
the results file doesn’t exist at all, that’s also a failure.
On the other hand, if we don’t need to match the entire file, but
only part of it, we can use the grep assertion to match a regular
expression:
exec myprog -o results.txt
grep '^hello' results.txt
-- golden.txt --
hello world
A grep assertion succeeds if the file matches the given
expression at least once, regardless of how many matches there
are. On the other hand, if it’s important that there are a specific
number of matches, we can use the -count flag to specify how
many :
grep -count=1 'beep' result.txt


-- result.txt --
beep beep
In this example, we specified that the pattern beep should only
match once in the target file, so this will fail:
> grep -count=1 'beep' result.txt
[result.txt]
beep beep
FAIL: beep.txtar:1: have 2 matches for `beep`,
want 1
Because the script’s work directory is automatically deleted after
the test, we can’t look at its contents—for example, to figure out
why the program’s not behaving as expected. To keep this
directory around for troubleshooting, we can supply the -
testwork flag to go test.
This will preserve the script’s work directory intact, and also
print the script’s environment, including the WORK variable that
tells us where to find that directory:
--- FAIL: TestScript/hello (0.01s)
    testscript.go:422:
        WORK=/private/var/folders/.../script-
hello
        PATH=...
        ...
The txtar format: constructing test data files
We’ve seen already in this chapter that we can create files in the
script’s work directory, using this special syntax to indicate a
named file entry:
-- golden.txt --
... file contents ...
(Listing hello/1)


The line beginning --, called a file marker line, tells
testscript that everything following this line (until the next
file marker) should be treated as the contents of golden.txt.
A file marker line must begin with two hyphens and a space, as
in our example, and end with a space and two hyphens. The part
in between these markers specifies the filename, which will be
stripped of any surrounding whitespace.
In fact, we can create as many additional files as we want, simply
by adding more file entries delimited by marker lines:
exec cat a.txt b.txt c.txt
-- a.txt --
...
-- b.txt --
...
-- c.txt --
...
(Listing hello/1)
Each marker line denotes the beginning of a new file, followed
by zero or more lines of content, and ending at the next file
marker line, if there is one. All these files will be created in the
work directory before the script starts, so we can rely on them
being present.
If we need to create folders, or even whole trees of files and
folders, we can do that by using slash-separated paths in the file
names:


-- misc/a.txt --
...
-- misc/subfolder/b.txt --
...
-- extra/c.txt --
...
(Listing hello/1)
When the script runs, the following tree of files will be created
for it to use:
$WORK/
    misc/
        a.txt
        subfolder/
            b.txt
    extra/
        c.txt
This is a very neat way of constructing an arbitrary set of files
and folders for the test, rather than having to create them using
Go code, or copying them from somewhere in testdata.
Instead, we can represent any number of text files as part of a
single file, the test script itself.
This representation, by the way, is called txtar format, short for
“text archive”, and that’s also the file extension we use for such
files.
While this format is very useful in conjunction with
testscript, a txtar file doesn’t have to be a test script. It can
also be used independently, as a simple way of combining
multiple folders and text files into a single file.


To use the txtar format in programs directly, import the txtar
package. For example, if you want to write a tool that can read
data from such archives, or that allows users to supply input as
txtar files, you can do that using the txtar package.
Supplying input to programs using stdin
Now that we know how to create arbitrary files in the script’s
work directory, we have another fun trick available. We can use
one of those files to supply input to a program, as though it were
typed by an interactive user, or piped into the program using a
shell.
For example, remember the Greet function from the previous
chapter? It prompted the user to enter their name, then printed a
nice greeting to them. We were able to decouple it from the real
terminal, for testing purposes, by passing it an io.Reader (for
input) and an io.Writer (for output).
That’s fine, but now we have a simpler alternative: we can run
the program as a binary, meaning that it doesn’t need special I/O
streams. It can use standard input and output directly.
Let’s see if we can use this idea to test our Greet example from
the previous chapter. First, we’ll set up a delegate main function
that returns an exit status value, as we did with the hello
program:
func Main() int {
    fmt.Println("Your name? ")
    scanner := bufio.NewScanner(os.Stdin)
    if !scanner.Scan() {
        return 1


    }
    fmt.Printf("Hello, %s!\n", scanner.Text())
    return 0
}
(Listing greet/6)
Just as with hello, we’ll use the map passed to
testscript.RunMain to associate our new custom program
greet with the greet.Main function:
func TestMain(m *testing.M) {
    os.Exit(testscript.RunMain(m, map[string]func() int
        "greet": greet.Main,
    }))
}
(Listing greet/6)
We’ll add the usual parent test that calls testscript.Run:
func TestGreet(t *testing.T) {
    testscript.Run(t, testscript.Params{
        Dir: "testdata/script",
    })
}
(Listing greet/6)
And here’s a test script that runs the greet program, supplies it
with fake “user” input via stdin, and checks its output:


stdin input.txt
exec greet
stdout 'Hello, John!'
-- input.txt --
John
(Listing greet/6)
First, the stdin statement specifies that standard input for the
next program run by exec will come from input.txt (defined
at the end of the script file, using a txtar file entry).
Next, we exec the greet command, and verify that its output
matches Hello, John!. Very simple, but a powerful way to
simulate any amount of user input for testing. Indeed, we could
simulate a whole “conversation” with the user.
Suppose the program asks the user for their favourite food as
well as their name, then prints a customised dining invitation:
func Main() int {


    fmt.Println("Your name? ")
    scanner := bufio.NewScanner(os.Stdin)
    if !scanner.Scan() {
        return 1
    }
    name := scanner.Text()
    fmt.Println("Your favourite food? ")
    if !scanner.Scan() {
        return 1
    }
    food := scanner.Text()
    fmt.Printf("Hello, %s. Care to join me for some %s?
        food)
    return 0
}
(Listing greet/7)
How can we test this with a script? Because the program scans
user input a line at a time, we can construct our “fake input” file
to contain the user’s name and favourite food on consecutive
lines:
stdin input.txt
exec greet
stdout 'Hello, Kim. Care to join me for some barbecue?'
-- input.txt --
Kim
barbecue
(Listing greet/7)
We can go even further with stdin. We’re not restricted to
supplying input from a file; we can also use the output of a


previous exec. This could be useful when one program is
supposed to generate output which will be piped to another, for
example:
exec echo hello
stdin stdout
exec cat
stdout 'hello'
First, we execute echo hello. Next, we say stdin stdout,
meaning that the input for the next exec should be the output of
the previous exec (in this case, that input will be the string
hello).
Finally, we execute the cat command, which copies its input to
its output, producing the final result of this “pipeline”: hello.
You can chain programs together using stdin stdout as many
times as necessary.
This isn’t quite like a shell pipeline, though, because there’s no
concurrency involved: stdin reads its entire input before
continuing. This is fine for most scripts, but just be aware that
the script won’t proceed until the previous exec has finished and
closed its output stream.
File operations
Just as in a traditional shell script, we can copy one file to
another using cp:
cp a.txt b.txt
However, the first argument to cp can also be stdout or
stderr, indicating that we want to copy the output of a
previous exec to some file:
exec echo hello


cp stdout tmp.txt
We can also use mv to move a file (that is, rename it) instead of
copying:
mv a.txt b.txt
We can also create a directory using mkdir, and then copy
multiple files into it with cp:
mkdir data
cp a.txt b.txt c.txt data
The cd statement will change the current directory for
subsequent programs run by exec:
cd data
To delete a file or directory, use the rm statement:
rm data
When used with a directory, rm acts recursively, like the shell’s
rm -rf: it deletes all contained files and subdirectories before
deleting the directory itself.
To create a symbolic link from one file or directory to another,
we can use the symlink statement, like this:
mkdir target
symlink source -> target
Note that the -> is required, and it indicates the “direction” of
the symlink. In this example, the link source will be created,
pointing to the existing directory target.
Differences from shell scripts
While test scripts look a lot like shell scripts, they don’t have any
kind of control flow statements, such as loops or functions.


Failing assertions will bail out of the script early, but that’s it. On
the plus side, this makes test scripts pretty easy to read and
understand.
There is a limited form of conditional statement, as we’ll see later
in this chapter, but let’s first look at a few other ways in which
test scripts differ from shell scripts.
For one thing, they don’t actually use a shell: commands run by
exec are invoked directly, without being parsed by a shell first.
So some of the familiar facilities of shell command lines, such as
globbing (using wildcards such as * to represent multiple
filenames) are not available to us directly.
That’s not necessarily a problem, though. If we need to expand a
glob expression, we can simply ask the shell to do it for us:
# List all files whose names begin with '.'
exec sh -c 'ls .*'
Similarly, we can’t use the pipe character (|) to send the output
of one command to another, as in a shell pipeline. Actually, we
already know how to chain programs together in a test script
using stdin stdout. But, again, if we’d rather invoke the shell
to do this, we can:
# count the number of lines printed by 'echo hello'
exec sh -c 'echo hello | wc -l'
Comments and phases
A # character in a test script begins a comment, as we saw in the
examples in the previous section. Everything else until the end of
the line is considered part of the comment, and ignored. That
means we can add comments after commands, too:
exec echo hello # this comment will not appear in outpu
Actually, comments in scripts aren’t entirely ignored. They also


delimit distinct sections, or phases, in the script.
For example, we can use a comment to tell the reader what’s
happening at each stage of a script that does several things:
# run an existing command: this will succeed
exec echo hello
# try to run a command that doesn't exist
exec bogus
This is informative, but that’s not all. If the script fails at any
point, testscript will print the detailed log output, as we’ve
seen in previous examples. However, only the log of the current
phase is printed; previous phases are suppressed. Only their
comments appear, to show that they succeeded.
Here’s the result of running the two-phase script shown in the
previous example:
# run an existing command: this will succeed
(0.003s)
# try to run a command that doesn't exist
(0.000s)
> exec bogus
[exec: "bogus": executable file not found in
$PATH]
Notice that the exec statement from the first phase (running
echo hello) isn’t shown here. Instead, we see only its
associated comment, which testscript treats as a description
of that phase, followed by the time it took to run:
# run an existing command: this will succeed
(0.003s)
Separating the script into phases using comments like this can be
very helpful for keeping the failure output concise, and of course


it makes the script more readable too.
Conditions
Because we’re running real programs on a real computer that we
have limited information about, we may need to specify some
conditions governing whether or not to perform an action.
For example, we can’t always guarantee in advance that the
program we want to run will actually be available on the test
system. We can check for its existence by prefixing the script line
with a condition:
[exec:sh] exec echo yay, we have a shell
The square brackets contain a condition, which can be true or
false. If the condition is true, the rest of the line is executed.
Otherwise, it’s ignored.
In this example, the condition [exec:sh] is true if there is a
program named sh in our $PATH that we have permission to
execute. If there isn’t, this line of the script will be ignored.
On the other hand, if we need to check for a program at a
specific path, we can give that path as part of the condition:
[exec:/bin/sh] exec echo yay, we have /bin/sh
There are a few other built-in conditions available, but perhaps
the most useful to us are the current Go version, the current
operating system, and the CPU architecture of this machine:
# 'go1.x' is true if this is Go 1.x or higher
[go1.16] exec echo 'We have at least Go 1.16'


# Any known value of GOOS is also a valid condition
[darwin] exec echo 'We''re on macOS'
# As is any known value of GOARCH
[!arm64] exec echo 'This is a non-arm64 machine'
As you can see from that example, we can also negate a condition
by prefixing it with !. For example, the condition [!arm64] is
true only if the value of GOARCH is not arm64.
We can use a condition to control other script statements, too,
not just exec. For example, we can use the skip statement to
skip the test in some circumstances:
# Skip this test unless we have Go 1.18 or later
[!go1.18] skip
# Skip this test on Linux
[linux] skip
The unix condition is true when the target OS is one of those
that Go considers “Unix-like”, including Linux, macOS, FreeBSD,
and others.
[unix] exec echo 'It''s a UNIX system! I know this!'
In Go 1.19, the only supported operating systems for which unix
is not true are js, nacl, plan9, windows, and zos.
Setting environment variables with env
Since command-line tools often use environment variables, it’s
important to be able to set and use these in scripts. To set a
particular variable for the duration of the script, use an env
statement:
env MYVAR=hello
For example, to test that some program myprog fails and prints


an error message when the environment variable it needs has no
value, we could write:
env AUTH_TOKEN=
! exec myprog
stderr 'AUTH_TOKEN must be set'
In scripts, we can refer to the value of an environment variable
by using the $ token followed by the name of the variable, just
like in a shell script. This will be replaced by the value of the
variable when the script runs. For example:
exec echo $PATH
This will cause echo to print the contents of $PATH, whatever it
happens to be when the script is run.
Each script starts with an empty environment, apart from $PATH,
and a few other predefined variables. For example, HOME is set to
/no-home, because many programs expect to be able to find the
user’s home directory in $HOME.
If scripts need to know the absolute path of their work directory,
it will be available as $WORK. For example, we could use $WORK
as part of the value for another environment variable:
env CACHE_DIR=$WORK/.cache
To make scripts deterministic, though, the actual value of this
variable will be replaced in the testscript output by the
literal string $WORK. In fact, the value of $WORK will be different
for every run and every test, but it will always print as simply
$WORK.
Because some programs also expect to read the variable
$TMPDIR to find out where to write their temporary files,
testscript sets this too, and its value will be $WORK/.tmp.
A useful variable for cross-platform testing is $exe. Its value on


Windows is .exe, but on all other platforms, it’s the empty
string. So you can specify the name of some program prog like
this:
exec prog$exe
On Windows, this evaluates to running prog.exe, but on non-
Windows systems, it will be simply prog.
Passing values to scripts via environment variables
Sometimes we need to supply dynamic information to a script,
for example some value that’s not known until the test is actually
running. We can pass values like this to scripts using the
environment, by using the Setup function supplied to
testscript.Run as part of Params.
For example, suppose the program run by the script needs to
connect to some server, but the address won’t be known until we
start the server in the test. Let’s say it’s generated by the same
randomLocalAddr helper we used in the previous chapter.
Once we know the generated address, we can store it in a
suitable environment variable, using the Setup function
supplied to testscript.Run:
func TestScriptWithExtraEnvVars(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    addr := randomLocalAddr(t)
    testscript.Run(t, testscript.Params{
        Dir: "testdata/script",


        Setup: func(env *testscript.Env) error {
            env.Setenv("SERVER_ADDR", addr)
            return nil
        },
    })
}
(Listing env/1)
The Setup function is run after any files in the test script have
been extracted, but before the script itself starts. It receives an
Env object containing the predefined environment variables to
be supplied to the script.
At this point, our Setup function can call env.Setenv to add
any extra environment variables it wants to make available in
the script. For example, we can set the SERVER_ADDR variable to
whatever the test server’s address is.
A script can then get access to that value by referencing
$SERVER_ADDR, just as it would with any other environment
variable:
exec echo $SERVER_ADDR
stdout '127.0.0.1:[\d]+'
(Listing env/1)
The stdout assertion here is just to make sure that we did
successfully set the SERVER_ADDR variable to something
plausible. In a real test we could use this value as the address for
the program to connect to.
Running programs in background with &
One nice feature of typical shells is the ability to run programs in
the background: that is, concurrently. For example, in most shells
we can write something like:
sleep 10 &


This starts the sleep program running as a separate process, but
continues to the next line of the script so that we can do
something else concurrently. We can do the same in a test script:
exec sleep 10 &
The trailing & (“ampersand”) character tells testscript to
execute the sleep program in the background, but carry on. Its
output will be buffered so that we can look at it later, if we need
to. We can start as many programs in the background as
necessary, and they will all run concurrently with the rest of the
script.
Because backgrounding a program with & doesn’t wait for it to
complete before continuing, we need a way to do that explicitly.
Otherwise, the script might end before the background program
is done. To do that, we use the wait statement:
exec sleep 10 &
wait
This pauses the script until all backgrounded programs have
exited, and then continues. At this point the output from those
programs, in the order they were started, will be available for
testing using the stdout, stderr, and cmp assertions, just as if
they’d been run in the foreground.
Why might we want to do this? Well, some programs might need
some background service to be available in order for us to test
them, such as a database or a web server.
At the end of the script, all programs still running in background
will be stopped using the os.Interrupt signal (that is, the
equivalent of typing Ctrl-C at the terminal), or, if necessary,
os.Kill.
Let’s see an example. Suppose we have some Go program that
implements a web server, and we want to start it on some
arbitrary port, then connect to it with curl and check that we
get the expected welcome message. How could we test that?


First, let’s set up a delegate Main function to run the server
program, taking its listen address from os.Args. We’ll associate
this with a custom program named listen, using
testscript.RunMain in the same way that we’ve done for
previous examples.
Again, we’ll use randomLocalAddr to generate a listen address,
and put this value in the environment variable SERVER_ADDR,
using Setup. The details are in Listing env/2, but they’re
essentially the same as the previous examples in this chapter.
Now we can write the script itself:
exec listen $SERVER_ADDR &
exec curl -s --retry-connrefused --retry 1 $SERVER_ADDR
stdout 'Hello from the Go web server'
wait
(Listing env/2)
The first thing we do is use exec to start our listen program
on the generated address. Notice that we use the & token to
execute the program concurrently, in background.
The next line of the script uses the well-known curl tool to
make an HTTP connection to the given address, and print the
response. Just as in our ListenAsync example from the
previous chapter, if we try to connect instantly it probably won’t
work. We need to tell curl to retry if the first connection
attempt is refused.
Once the connection has succeeded, we use stdout to assert
that the server responds with the message “Hello from the Go
web server”.
If the script simply ended here, the background listen process
would be killed with an interrupt signal, which would cause the
test to fail. We don’t want that, so we add a wait statement.


But if the server listened forever, then the wait statement would
also wait for it forever (or, at least, until the test timed out). We
don’t want that either, so we’ve arranged for the server to
politely shut itself down after serving exactly one request.
Normal servers wouldn’t do this, but it just makes this
demonstration clearer.
Therefore, the wait statement pauses the script just long enough
to allow this tidy shutdown to happen, and then exits.
The standalone testscript runner
The testscript language is so useful that it would be great to
be able to use it even outside the context of Go tests. For
example, we might like to write test scripts as standalone
programs for use in automation pipelines and CI systems, or in
non-Go software projects.
Wouldn’t it be nice if we could write a test script and simply run
it directly from the command line, without having to write Go
code to do so? Well, you’ll be delighted to know that we can do
exactly this, by installing the standalone testscript tool:
go install github.com/rogpeppe/go-internal/cmd/
testscript@latest
To use it, all we need to do is give the path to a script, or
multiple scripts:
testscript testdata/script/*
This will run each script in turn and print PASS if it passes (and
the comments describing each successful phase). Otherwise, it
will print FAIL, accompanied by the same failure output we’d
see when running the script in a Go test.
If any script fails, the exit status from testscript will be 1,
which is useful for detecting failures in automations.
If we want to log what the script is doing, we can use the -v
flag, which prints verbose output whether the script passes or
fails:


testscript -v echo.txtar
WORK=$WORK
[rest of environment omitted]
> exec echo hello
[stdout]
hello
> stdout 'hello'
PASS
To pass environment variables to scripts, we can specify them
using the -e flag. Repeat the -e flag for each variable-value pair:
testscript -e VAR1=hello -e VAR2=goodbye
script.txtar
Just as when running scripts from Go tests, each script will get
its own work directory which is cleaned up afterwards. To
preserve this directory and its contents, for example for
troubleshooting, use the -work flag:
testscript -work script.txtar
temporary work directory: /var/.../
testscript1116180846
PASS
By the way, if you use the VS Code editor, there’s a useful
extension available for syntax highlighting txtar files and
scripts, called vscode-txtar. Not only does it highlight
testscript syntax, it’s also smart enough (in most cases) to
identify the language in included files (for example, .go files)
and highlight them appropriately. This makes editing non-trivial
scripts a good deal easier.
Just for fun, we can even use testscript as an interpreter,
using the “shebang line” syntax available on some Unix-like
operating systems, including Linux and macOS.
For example, we could create a file named hello.txtar with


the following contents:
#!/usr/bin/env testscript
exec echo hello
stdout 'hello'
The line beginning #! tells the system where to find the
interpreter that should be used to execute the rest of the script. If
you’ve wondered why some shell scripts start with #!/bin/sh,
for example, now you know.
So, if we alter the file’s permissions to make it executable, we
can run this script directly from the command line:
chmod +x hello.txtar
./hello.txtar
PASS
Test scripts as issue repros
Because the flexible txtar format lets us represent not only a
test script, but also multiple files and folders as a single copy-
pastable block of text, it’s a great way to submit test case
information along with bug reports. Indeed, it’s often used to
report bugs in Go itself.
If we have found some bug in a program, for example, we can
open an issue with the maintainers and provide them with a test
script that very concisely demonstrates the problem:
# I was promised 'Go 2', are we there yet?
exec go version
stdout 'go version go2.\d+'
The maintainers can then run this script themselves to see if they
can reproduce the issue:


testscript repro.txtar
# I was promised 'Go 2', are we there yet?
(0.016s)
> exec go version
[stdout]
go version go1.18 darwin/amd64
> stdout 'go version go2.\d+'
FAIL: script.txt:3: no match for `go version
go2.\d+` found in stdout
Supposing they’re willing or able to fix the bug (if indeed it is a
bug), they can check their proposed fix using the same script:
testscript repro.txtar
# I was promised 'Go 2', are we there yet?
(0.019s)
PASS
Indeed, they can add the script to the project’s own tests. By
making it easy to submit, reproduce, and discuss test cases,
testscript can even be a way to gently introduce automated
testing into an environment where it’s not yet seriously
practiced:
How do you spread the use of automated testing?
One way is to start asking for explanations in terms
of test cases: “Let me see if I understand what
you’re saying. For example, if I have a Foo like this
and a Bar like that, then the answer should be 76?”
—Kent Beck, “Test-Driven Development by
Example”
Test scripts as… tests
Didn’t we already talk about this? We started out describing
testscript as an extension to Go tests. In other words,
running a script via the go test command. But what if you


want to flip the script again, by running the go test command
from a script?
I’ll give you an example. I maintain all the code examples from
this and other books in GitHub repos. I’d like to check, every
time I make changes, that all the code still behaves as expected.
How can I do that?
I could manually run go test in every module subdirectory,
but there are dozens in the tpg-tests repo alone, so this would
take a while. I could even write a shell script that visits every
directory and runs go test, and for a while that’s what I did.
But it’s not quite good enough.
Because I’m developing the example programs step by step, some
of the example tests don’t pass, and that’s by design. For
example, if I start by writing a failing test for some feature, in
the “guided by tests” style I prefer, then I expect it to fail, and
that’s what my script needs to check.
How can I specify that the go test command should fail in
some directories, but pass in others? That sounds just like the
exec assertion we learned about earlier, doesn’t it? And we can
use exactly that:
! exec go test
stdout 'want 4, got 5'
(Listing double/1)
You can see what this is saying: it’s saying the tests should fail,
and the failure output should contain the message “want 4, got
5”. And that’s exactly what the code does, so this script test
passes. It might seem a little bizarre to have a test that passes if
and only if another test fails, but in this case that’s just what we
want.
Many of the examples are supposed to pass, of course, so their
test scripts specify that instead:


exec go test
(Listing double/2)
And in most cases that’s the only assertion necessary. But there’s
something missing from these scripts that you may already have
noticed. Where’s the code?
We talked earlier in the chapter about the neat feature of the
txtar format that lets us include arbitrary text files in a test
script. These will automatically be created in the script’s work
directory before it runs. But we don’t see any Go files included in
these test scripts, so where do they come from? What code is the
go test command testing?
Well, it’s in the GitHub repo, of course: Listing double/2, for
example. I don’t want to have to copy and paste it all into the
test script, and even if I did, that wouldn’t help. The test script is
supposed to tell me if the code in the repo is broken, not the
second-hand copy of it I pasted into the script.
We need a way of including files in a script on the fly, so to
speak. In other words, what we’d like to do is take some
directory containing a bunch of files, bundle them all up in
txtar format, add some test script code, and then run that script
with testscript. Sounds complicated!
Not really. The txtar-c tool does exactly this. Let’s install it:
go install github.com/bitfield/txtar-c@latest
Now we can create a txtar archive of any directory we like:
txtar-c .
The output is exactly what you’d expect: a txtar file that
includes the contents of the current directory. Great! But we also
wanted to include our exec assertion, so let’s put that in a file
called test.txtar, and have the tool automatically include it
as a script:
txtar-c -script test.txtar .


We now have exactly the script that we need to run, and since
we don’t need to save it as a file, we can simply pipe it straight
into testscript:
txtar-c -script test.txtar . |testscript
PASS
Very handy! So txtar-c and testscript make perfect
partners when we want to run some arbitrary test script over a
bunch of existing files, or even dozens of directories containing
thousands of files. When it’s not convenient to create the txtar
archive manually, we can use txtar-c to do it automatically,
and then use the standalone testscript runner to test the
result.
Conclusion
To sum up, test scripts are a very Go-like solution to the problem
of testing command-line tools: they can do a lot with a little,
using a simple syntax that conceals some powerful machinery.
The real value of testscript, indeed, is that it strips away all
the irrelevant boilerplate code needed to build binaries, execute
them, read their output streams, compare the output with
expectations, and so on.
Instead, it provides an elegant and concise notation for
describing how our programs should behave under various
different conditions. By relieving our brains of this unnecessary
work, testscript sets us free to think about more advanced
problems, such as: what are we really testing here?
