3. Communicating with tests
Tests are stories we tell the next generation of
programmers on a project. They allow a developer
to see exactly what an application is made of and
where it started.
—Roy Osherove, “The Art of Unit Testing”
What are tests, actually? One interesting and slightly unusual
way to think about them is as a way of communicating. Not with
the computer, except in a shallow sense.
Rather, we’re really communicating with our fellow
programmers, our successors, and even our future selves. So
what is it that we’re communicating, in fact? What’s the point of
a test?
Tests capture intent


Tests aren’t just about verifying that the system works, because
we could do that (slowly) by hand. The deeper point about tests
is that they capture intent. They document what was in our minds
when we built the software; what user problems it’s supposed to
solve; how the system is supposed to behave in different
circumstances and with different inputs.
As we’re writing the tests, they serve to help us clarify and
organise our thoughts about what we actually want the system to
do. Because if we don’t know that, how on earth can we be
expected to code it?
No amount of elegant programming or technology
will solve a problem if it is improperly specified or
understood to begin with.
—Milt Bryce, “Bryce’s Laws”
So the first person you need to communicate with when you’re
writing a test is yourself. Start by describing the required
behaviour in words: “When the user does X, then Y happens, and
so on.” As you do this, the very act of description will prompt
you to fill in some of the blanks: what if this happens? What if
you get that input?
This won’t be straightforward. If it were, this step wouldn’t be
necessary, but it is. Our brains are wonderful at ignoring
irrelevant details, and picking out what’s really important. They
evolved that way. If there’s a sabre-toothed cat leaping at you,
you don’t need to know what colour its stripes are. You just need
to run like hell.
But computers don’t work like that. If they did, we could just
type one sentence and be done: Do what I mean! Instead, we have
to explain every step, every twist and turn, and every change in
circumstance.
In other words, we have to be clear.
The most important single aspect of software
development is to be clear about what you are trying


to build.
—Bjarne Stroustrup, “The C++ Programming
Language”
The first question we need to ask ourselves before writing a test,
then, is:
What are we really testing here?
Until we know the answer to that, we won’t know what test to
write. And until we can express the answer in words, ideally as a
short, clear sentence, we can’t be sure that the test will
accurately capture our intent.
Test names should be sentences
So now that we have a really clear idea about the behaviour we
want, the next step is to communicate that idea to someone else.
The test as a whole should serve this purpose, but let’s start with
the test name.
You know that test functions in Go need to start with the word
Test, but the rest of the function name is up to us. Usually, we
don’t think too hard about this part.
But maybe we’re missing a trick. The name of the test isn’t just
paperwork, it’s an opportunity for communication. And
communication has a lot more to do with great software
engineering than you might think:
It’s possible that a not-so-smart person, who can
communicate well, can do much better than a super
smart person who can’t communicate well. That is
good news because it is much easier to improve your
communication skills than your intelligence.
—Kevin Kelly, “103 Bits of Advice I Wish I Had
Known”
Tests communicate by failing. When this test fails, as it surely
will at some time or other, what will be printed out before


anything else? Its name.
So, just like the specific failure string that we pass to t.Error or
t.Fatal, the name of the test is also a message. What should it
say? It should describe the behaviour of the system that the test
checks. In other words, the name of the test is the behaviour that
it’s designed to disprove.
Let’s take an example. Suppose we have some function called
Valid that takes some input and checks whether or not it’s
valid. It doesn’t matter what the input is, or what “valid” means
in this context. Let’s just say that the input is valid if it’s the
exact string "valid input". Any other string will be
considered invalid.
To write the test, we’ll start by writing out the behaviour
explicitly as a sentence, as concisely as we can without
sacrificing relevant detail:
Valid returns true for valid input
It may not be possible to express in detail what “valid input”
means in a single short sentence, but that’s okay. The job of this
initial sentence is to describe the focus of this test, not every
detail about it.
Now it’s time to expand this into runnable code. Here’s the test
that most Go programmers would probably write, if they’re not
used to thinking of tests as a communication tool:
func TestValid(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    want := true
    got := valid.Valid("valid input")


    if want != got {
        t.Errorf("want %t, got %t", want, got)
    }
}
(Listing valid/1)
Failures are a message to the future
There doesn’t seem to be too much wrong with this, and indeed
there isn’t; it’s a perfectly reasonable test. But it doesn’t
communicate as much as it could. When it fails, what do we see?
--- FAIL: TestValid (0.00s)
    valid_test.go:12: want true, got false
How useful is this output? Remember, we won’t be looking at the
code for the test function when we see this. All we’ll see is this
message, and it might be in the middle of a long list of other
output. It conveys no context about what’s going on, what the
test was trying to do, what the input was, or what this failure
means.
All we know is what we see: “TestValid: want true, got false”.
That’s pretty opaque. It leaves the reader with many questions:
•  What value were we inspecting?
•  Why did we expect it to be true?
•  For what input?
•  What does it mean that we got false instead?
•  In what respect is the system not behaving as specified?
In order to solve the problem indicated by this failing test, we
need to do a fair amount of work. We have to find the relevant
test, read it through and understand what it’s doing overall, look
at the specific line that’s failing, understand why it might have
failed, and only then go and fix the system code.
Multiply this by more than a few test failures, and it’s clear that
we’re inadvertently creating a lot of unfair extra work for some
poor, harassed developer in the future. This is a serious problem,


not least because that developer might well be us.
Can we do more to help? Is there any work we could do in
advance of the test failure, to make it easier to diagnose when it
does happen?
Let’s start with the name of the test. Something vague like
TestValid is no help (what about Valid?) Instead, we could
use the test name to describe the required behaviour in detail.
We already have a short sentence that does this:
Valid returns true for valid input
Why shouldn’t we simply remove the spaces from this sentence
and use the result as the name of the test?
func TestValidIsTrueForValidInput(t *testing.T) {
Remember, when the test fails, this name will be the first thing
printed out:
--- FAIL: TestValidIsTrueForValidInput (0.00s)
In fact, this name conveys so much information, we may not
need to say very much else. If Valid is supposed to be true for
valid input, and we’re seeing this failure, then we can
immediately infer that it must have, in fact, been false for valid
input.
It’s still good practice to have t.Error report the actual result,
even if there’s only one possibility, as in this case. So here’s the
updated test:
func TestValidIsTrueForValidInput(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    if !valid.Valid("valid input") {


        t.Error(false)
    }
}
(Listing valid/2)
So the complete failure message, including the name of the test,
is:
--- FAIL: TestValidIsTrueForValidInput (0.00s)
    main_test.go:20: false
And even though the failure message is much shorter than our
original version, it actually gives much more information when
combined with a test name in the form of a sentence.
Are we testing all important behaviours?
Taking advantage of an otherwise neglected communication
channel—the test name—helps make future test failures easier to
fix. But there’s another benefit, too.
In order to write a useful sentence describing the system’s
behaviour, we needed to include three things: the action, the
condition, and the expectation. In other words:
Test names should be ACE: they should include Action,
Condition, and Expectation.
For example, in the test for our Valid function, these are as
follows:
•  Action: calling Valid
•  Condition: with valid input
•  Expectation: returns true
By being explicit about these, the test sentence can also suggest
other possibilities. For example, how should Valid behave
under different conditions? What should it do when given invalid
input?
And that’s something we need to know. While it’s important that


Valid is true for valid input, it’s equally important (if not more
important) that it’s false for invalid input. After all, it might just
always be true, which would pass this test, but still not be useful
in the real program.
In other words, we need to think about implementations of
Valid that would pass the “valid input” test, but nevertheless be
incorrect. Here’s a simple example:
func Valid(input string) bool {
    return true
}
(Listing valid/3)
The point of Valid is to reject invalid input, but we don’t have
to look too hard at the code to see that, in fact, it can never do
this. Yet our test will pass, and if we check coverage, we’ll see
that the function is 100% covered by the test.
Many real tests are just like this. The developers feel good about
the system, because the tests pass, and the code is well covered.
But they’re not looking closely enough at what the tests are
really testing. Let’s not make the same mistake.
After we’ve written a test, then, it’s important to ask ourselves
the question:
What are we really testing here?
It’s possible to set out with a very clear intention, yet end up
writing a test that doesn’t actually do quite what we meant it to.
We need to review the code afterwards and see whether it really
expresses the intent captured by the original behaviour sentence.
If it does, are there other important behaviours remaining that we
haven’t yet tested?
By saying everything two ways—both as code and
as tests—we hope to reduce our defects enough to


move forward with confidence. From time to time
our reasoning will fail us and a defect will slip
through. When that happens, we learn our lesson
about the test we should have written and move on.
—Kent Beck, “Test-Driven Development by
Example”
The power of combining tests
What we’ve realised by going through this thought process is that
Valid actually has two important behaviours, and we’ve only
tested one of them: that it returns true for valid input.
That’s the “happy path”, if you like, and it’s important, but it’s
also easy to pass with a completely broken implementation of
Valid, as we’ve seen.
To have confidence that Valid can actually discriminate between
valid and invalid inputs, we need to test the “sad path” too. For
example:
func TestValidIsFalseForInvalidInput(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    if valid.Valid("invalid input") {
        t.Error(true)
    }
}
(Listing valid/4)
Of course, this test is also insufficient by itself. If this were the
only test we had, it would be easy to pass by simply having
Valid always return false, whatever its input.
The point is that the two tests combined can give us confidence in


the correctness of Valid. Each test tells us something useful
about the system’s behaviour on its own, but not the whole story.
Only by running them together can we detect faulty
implementations such as always returning a fixed value.
Another way to think about this is there are two possible
behaviours of Valid, so we need to cover both of them with
tests. Remember, test behaviours, not functions. Each behaviour
of the system is a distinct code path that needs to be exercised by
some test if we’re to have confidence in it.
The “lazy” Valid implementation might seem unrealistic, but
it’s the sort of thing that can easily happen in large projects, with
many developers and testers, and not enough time. Maybe the
implementer had multiple failing tests, and needed to “fix” them
quickly to bypass the normal deployment checks. They might
even have left a comment to remind themselves to implement the
function properly later:
return true // TODO: write real implementation
Unfortunately, tests can’t read comments. And, if we’re being
honest with ourselves, TODO comments like this almost never
result in action anyway. They represent the graveyard of things
we’ll never get around to.
Bugs aren’t always as obvious as this, though. If only they were,
our work would be a lot easier. Let’s look at another possible
incorrect implementation of Valid:
func Valid(input string) bool {
    return strings.Contains(input, "valid input")
}
(Listing valid/4)
This almost looks reasonable, doesn’t it? And it will pass the
“valid input” test. But it’s still wrong. Can you see how? If not,
think about what would happen if we called Valid with the


string "invalid input".
Recall that we defined the input as valid if it’s exactly the string
valid input. In other words, it’s not good enough for input
just to contain that string: it also mustn’t contain anything else.
So strings.Contains isn’t the right thing to use here.
This is why we also need a test that Valid returns false when
given input that contains valid input as a substring. We can
imagine an incorrect implementation that’s equivalent to
strings.Contains, so we need a bug detector that detects
this.
Even when we’re being very disciplined and writing tests first,
it’s easy to end up writing this sort of bug. And because we have
passing tests, this can give us a completely unjustified confidence
in the system.
Over time, this can create a dangerous complacency. The tests
have been passing for months! So the system must be correct.
Mustn’t it?
Just as a car needs regular inspection and service, it’s a good
idea for us to take a really close look at our tests every so often
and ask:
What are we really testing here?
And, as we’ve seen, one effective way to answer this is to
imagine some incorrect implementations that could nevertheless
pass the test. Then we extend the tests so that we can
automatically detect and eliminate such bugs.
The thing that most people forget about code is that it changes
over time. Even if the implementation is correct now, someone
might look at it in a few months or years and ask, “Could I
refactor this function to just return true?” If they try this, and it
passes the tests, they will quite justifiably assume that their
refactoring is correct.
That’s why we need to write more robust tests. Remember the


“bug detector” that Martin Fowler talks about? It needs to detect
not only the bugs that we write today, but also the bugs that we
—or someone else—might write in the future.
Reading tests as docs, with gotestdox
The combined power of our two tests is too much for even the
laziest and most malicious implementer. Now the quickest and
easiest way to get the tests passing is simply to write a correct
implementation of Valid. Here’s one:
func Valid(input string) bool {
    return input == "valid input"
}
(Listing valid/5)
And since most people will understandably get their jobs done in
the quickest, easiest way possible, it’s a good idea to make the
easiest way also the correct one. These tests do exactly that.
We now have two very short, very focused, and very important
tests for Valid. Let’s see what their names tell us, as behaviour
sentences:
func TestValidIsTrueForValidInput(...)
func TestValidIsFalseForInvalidInput(...)
We now have a complete description of the important behaviour
of Valid. It’s almost like documentation. Indeed, we could take
just these test names, strip out the func boilerplate, add some
spaces back in, and print them out like this:
Valid is true for valid input
Valid is false for invalid input
These are the sentences we started with: the ones that guided our


writing of the original tests. They perfectly capture our intent.
They say what we’re really testing here.
And wouldn’t it be handy to automate this process, so we could
just run our test code through some translator that prints out
these sentences?
Funny you should ask that. There’s a tool called gotestdox you
might like to try. Let’s install it:
go install github.com/bitfield/gotestdox/cmd/
gotestdox@latest
If we run it in our package directory, it will run the tests, and
report the results, while simultaneously translating the test
names into readable sentences:
gotestdox
valid:
 ✔ Valid is true for valid input (0.00s)
 ✔ Valid is false for invalid input (0.00s)
Why the name gotestdox? Because these aren’t just test results:
they’re docs. This isn’t a new idea, it turns out:
My first “Aha!” moment occurred as I was being
shown a deceptively simple utility called
agiledox, written by my colleague, Chris
Stevenson. It takes a JUnit test class and prints out
the method names as plain sentences.
The word “test” is stripped from both the class name
and the method names, and the camel-case method
name is converted into regular text. That’s all it
does, but its effect is amazing.
Developers discovered it could do at least some of
their documentation for them, so they started to
write test methods that were real sentences.
—Dan North, “Introducing BDD”


When you see your test names printed out as sentences, it’s
suddenly clear how much more they could communicate. You’ll
start thinking about your tests in a new way, by writing names
that are real sentences.
One of the first steps I take when code-reviewing a student’s
project is to run its test names through gotestdox, and show
them the result. It’s a very effective way of getting them to think
about their test names as a useful communication channel, and
usually has a significant effect on improving the tests.
Most developers, as we’ve seen, instinctively name their tests
after the action involved: calling Valid, for example. That’s a
good start. But by naming the test with a complete sentence,
we’re forced to also include the two other relevant facts about
the test. Those are the conditions under which Valid is being
tested, and our corresponding expectations about what it should
do in that case.
Without these, a test name doesn’t really tell us much. A name
like TestValid isn’t a sentence. If you try to read it that way, as
a statement about the behaviour of Valid, it’s incomplete:
Valid…
Now you know how to complete that sentence, don’t you? By
saying what Valid does, and when. For example, “Valid returns
true for valid input.”
Running the test suite through a tool like gotestdox can point
out a lot of opportunities to add useful information to our test
names, and maybe even some new tests.
I see a lot of Go unit tests without the condition, just
a list of expectations (or contrariwise, just a list of
states without expectations). Either way, it can
easily lead to blind spots, things you are not testing
that you should be.
—Michael Sorens, “Go Unit Tests: Tips from the
Trenches”


Definitions: “does”, not “should”
If you’re now convinced that test names should be sentences, or
you’re at least intrigued by the possibilities of this idea, let’s
think a little more about what those sentences might say, and
how they should say it.
First, as we’ve seen, the sentence should describe the behaviour
of taking some action under some particular conditions, and it
should say specifically what our expectation is in that case. For
example:
Valid is true for valid input.
Notice that we didn’t say, for example:
Valid should be true for valid input.
It’s tempting to include “should” in every test sentence,
especially if we’re writing the test first. I don’t think that’s
necessary, and we can keep our test sentences short and to the
point by omitting words like “should”, “must”, and “will”. Just
say what it does.
A good way to think of this is to imagine that every test sentence
implicitly ends with the words “…when the code is correct”.
Let’s try that out:
Valid is true for valid input when the code is
correct.
We wouldn’t say that Valid should be true when the code is
correct, we would say it is true! This isn’t an aspiration, in other
words: it’s a definition.
Let me ask you, what’s the purpose of your test? To
test that “it works”? That’s only half the story. The
biggest challenge in code is not to determine whether
“it works”, but to determine what “it works” means.
—Kevlin Henney, “Program with GUTs”


gotestdox will not only format this definition for us in a
helpful way, it will also report on its status. If the test is passing,
the sentence will be preceded by a checkmark:
 ✔ Valid is true for input (0.00s)
If the test fails, an x before the test sentence shows that the
relevant part of the system is not yet correct:
 x Valid is false for invalid input (0.00s)
A sentence is about the right size for a unit
If you find that it’s difficult to express the behaviour you’re
testing as a single concise sentence, then that can be a useful
signal in itself. You may be trying to cram too much behaviour
into a single test.
If it takes more than a sentence to explain what
you’re doing, that’s almost always a sign that it’s
too complicated.
—Sam Altman, “How to Start a Startup”
To make things easier for both yourself and anyone trying to
read the tests, split the behaviour up into multiple tests instead.
What to call your test is easy: it’s a sentence
describing the next behaviour in which you are
interested. How much to test becomes moot: you can
only describe so much behaviour in a single
sentence.
—Dan North, “Introducing BDD”
Indeed, maybe you’re trying to cram too much behaviour into a
single unit. That’s a smell, too. Turning that around, we might
say that a well-designed unit should have no more behaviour
than can be expressed in a few short sentences, each of which
can be translated directly into a test.
It turns out that the information contained in a single sentence


corresponds quite well to the amount of behaviour that a unit
should have. In both cases, it’s about how much complexity our
minds are comfortable dealing with in a single chunk.
And if you can’t actually express your test in terms of some user-
visible behaviour, or as fulfilling some external requirement for
the system, then maybe you’re not really testing anything useful.
Perhaps you should just skip this test altogether.
Your unit test name should express a specific
requirement. This requirement should be somehow
derived from either a business requirement or a
technical requirement. If your test is not
representing a requirement, why are you writing it?
Why is that code even there?
—Roy Osherove, “Naming Standards for Unit
Tests”
Let’s look at some examples from the Go project itself, as
reported by gotestdox:
std/encoding/csv:
 ✔ Read simple (0.00s)
 ✔ Read bare quotes (0.00s)
 ✔ Read bare double quotes (0.00s)
 ✔ Read bad double quotes (0.00s)
 ✔ Read bad field count (0.00s)
 ✔ Read trailing comma EOF (0.00s)
 ✔ Read non ASCII comma and comment (0.00s)
 ✔ Read quoted field multiple LF (0.00s)
 ✔ Read multiple CRLF (0.00s)
 ✔ Read huge lines (0.00s)
...
The moment any of these tests fails, it’ll be really clear what
specific behaviour is not happening as expected:
 x Read huge lines (0.00s)
Keeping behaviour simple and focused


Limiting the behaviour under test to what can be described in a
single sentence not only helps us focus on what’s important, it
can help prevent us over-engineering the system.
When we’re just writing a function directly, without being
guided by tests, it can be difficult to know where to stop. Should
we think about this or that edge case? What could go wrong
here? Should we define some custom error type to return if we
hit this problem? You could keep writing code all day and not be
sure when you’re done.
By contrast, a test tells us exactly when we’re done, because it
starts passing! It’s a way of limiting scope in advance, and
forcing us to decide in advance what we do and don’t consider
important—at least, at this stage.
Good design is not only about what we have the imagination to
put in, but also what we have the clarity of purpose to leave out:
The difference between a good and a poor architect
is that the poor architect succumbs to every
temptation and the good one resists it.
—Ludwig Wittgenstein, “Culture and Value”
Again, tests act as a useful quality filter for our ideas. Of course
we have lots of ideas as we’re programming (“What about this?
What about that?”), and that’s great. But the disciplined
programmer will simply note these ideas down on the list of
possible user stories for later, and continue to focus on the
current task.
It’s quite likely that we’ll come along and extend the required
behaviour later on, when we know more about the system. But at
every stage, the test specifies the behaviour we care about right
now, and defines what “done” means for that particular
behaviour. And that starts with expressing the name of the test as
a short sentence.
Shallow abstractions: “Is this even worth it?”


Sometimes when we write the required behaviour as a sentence
we find, not that the unit under test is doing too much, but that
it’s doing too little. This can be a clue that the behaviour you’re
testing isn’t actually necessary, or operates at too low a level to
be worth the cost of building and using it.
Abstractions, to be useful, should be deep: that is, they should
conceal powerful machinery behind a simple API. A shallow
abstraction, on the other hand, just creates paperwork and
doesn’t provide any value for users. We’ve all come across plenty
of those.
The best modules are deep: they have a lot of
functionality hidden behind a simple interface. On
the other hand, a shallow module is one whose
interface is relatively complex in comparison to the
functionality that it provides.
Shallow modules don’t help much in the battle
against complexity, because any benefit they provide
is negated by the cost of learning and using their
interfaces.
—John Ousterhout, “A Philosophy of Software
Design”
If your abstraction is too shallow, that’ll often become clear as
you try to write the test sentence for it. If the sentence implies
that the abstraction really doesn’t do much, take this as a cue to
redesign it.
Try to increase the ratio between the complexity of its API and
the amount of work it actually does for the user. The bigger this
ratio, the deeper the abstraction, and thus the more leverage it
gives you.
Don’t worry about long test names
You might be concerned that naming tests as sentences will
result in some awkwardly long names for your test functions:


TestValidIsTrueForValidInput
True, we probably wouldn’t want to use function names as long
as this in our system code. Good code is concise, and in normal
programming we tend to choose names that are as short as
possible, while still remaining clear. But test names are a little
different.
We never call these functions, so we don’t refer to those names in
code. And users of our package won’t see them, because they’re
not part of the public API. So if their names don’t matter to
anyone but us, why shouldn’t we make them something
meaningful?
A tool like gotestdox, which gives us a clear picture of exactly
what information our tests are communicating, can be a very
useful thinking aid. It can help us break up the system itself into
more focused and self-contained units of behaviour. It can help
us design better, more comprehensive, and more readable tests
for those units.
And it can help bring about a fundamental change in the way we
think about tests. We can switch from treating tests as dull but
necessary paperwork, to using them as a clear, expressive, and
automatically verifiable description of the system itself, in
language that users understand.
The next time you write a test, then, you might like to try asking,
not just “what are we really testing here?”, but also “what intent
is this test communicating?”
Crafting informative failure messages
While the name of the test is an important tool for
communicating intent, its failure messages are arguably even
more important.
When we’re writing the system code we tend to focus on the
happy path: what the function does when everything goes
according to plan. Writing test code, though, is all about
imagining errors that might happen, and bugs that might be


present, and then designing experiments to detect them.
This is one reason that more experienced programmers write
better tests: we’ve simply written more bugs over the years. Not
only do we have a good sense of what kind of bugs are possible
or likely in a given code path (off-by-one errors, for example),
we’ve also learned something about the kind of mistakes that we
personally tend to make.
We all have our own individual style of programming, and
similarly, we all have particular blind spots and bad habits.
Being aware of them and being able to catch them with tests is a
crucial part of our development as software engineers.
If we accept that tests are for failing, then the implication is
clear: the most important parts of the test must be the failure
messages.
Again, this tends to be the area that inexperienced programmers
pay the least attention to. The worst mistake you can make in a
test, as we’ve seen, is not to catch the problem at all, but the next
worst is to report nothing useful about it:
if want != got {
    t.Error("fail")
}
That’s redundant. If we’re seeing a message at all when running
the tests, it means something failed. But what? We have no idea.
This is only marginally better:
if want != got {
    t.Error("want not equal to got")
}
Again, we could have inferred this from the fact that the test is


failing in the first place. What would be useful here is some
information about what should have happened:
if want != got {
    t.Errorf("want %v, but didn't get it", want)
}
Even this is a frustrating failure message to see, though. It tells us
what was supposed to happen, and that it didn’t, but we have no
clue as to why not, or what happened instead. What’s the first
thing we would do to start diagnosing a failure like this?
We’d print out the actual value of got, of course. So the helpful
test writer will save us this step, by anticipating it:
if want != got {
    t.Errorf("want %v, got %v", want, got)
}
If the values of want and got are long, complicated, or
otherwise hard to read (slices of bytes, for example), we can use
cmp.Diff again:
if want != got {
    t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
}
In the case of a failure, the test output might look something like
this:
  Thing{
    X: 10,
-   Y:  99,
+   Y:  100,
    Z: 5,


  }
Here, what was expected was Y: 99, but what we got was Y:
100. That information by itself may well be enough for the
programmer to guess what the underlying problem is.
It’s good to know that want doesn’t equal got, and what the
difference is, but even that’s not particularly useful in isolation.
A failure like this doesn’t actually tell us what that mismatch
means, in terms of the behaviour under test.
A good test failure should say something about what user-visible
problem the test has detected:
if want != got {
    t.Error("wrong account balance after concurrent dep
        cmp.Diff(want, got))
}
If the test’s job is to demonstrate that a particular input value
causes a problem, that should also be included in the failure
message:
if err != nil {
    t.Error("input %d caused unexpected error: %v", inp
}
Ideally, the developer reading the test failure message should
have all the information they need to find and fix the problem,
based purely on the message. They shouldn’t have to read the test
code at all.
Exercising failure messages
Failure messages, then, if they’re well-crafted, are the most
critical and valuable parts of any test. Isn’t it strange, in that


case, that they’re never seen by the majority of programmers
writing them?
You already know that it’s important to see every test fail when
you know the system is incorrect. It’s our way of evaluating the
test logic: does it detect the bug it’s supposed to detect? And
that’s an important thing to check, but we need to do more.
Once the system is implemented and working (we think), we can
start to evaluate the various failure messages of our tests. For
each failure path, of which there may be several in any given
test, we want to see the test output. We need to check that it
makes sense, prints what it’s supposed to print, and includes all
the relevant information. How can we do that?
The test is designed to catch a problem in the system code, so if
we want to know whether it will successfully do that, we need to
introduce a problem in the system code.
Don’t be tempted to tweak the test code, for example by
changing the value of want. In fact, the correct value of want is
one of the things we’re supposed to see when the test fails. So
changing it just to induce the failure would be
counterproductive.
Suppose we have a test for some function Double that looks like
this:
func TestDouble2Returns4(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    want := 4
    got := double.Double(2)
    if want != got {
        t.Errorf("Double(2): want %d, got %d", want, go


    }
}
(Listing double/1)
How should we induce this failure artificially, in order to check
the output of the t.Errorf call? We could change want to 5,
but that’s silly. In order to know that the test can detect a bug in
the function, we need to add a bug to the function, not the test.
For example, we could add a temporary change to the Double
function to skew its result slightly:
func Double(n int) int {
    return n*2 + 1
}
(Listing double/1)
If that doesn’t cause the test to fail, what would? If it does,
though, we can have reasonable confidence that the test tests
something useful about Double. Don’t forget to remove your
deliberately-inserted bug once you’ve checked this, though.
Executable examples
As we’ve seen, there’s a lot we can communicate to readers using
Go tests, starting with the test names, and continuing with the
logic of the tests themselves. By using the system in a test, we
can not just verify things about its behaviour, but also show users
how they can call the system, and how they should expect it to
behave.
That’s great, but sometimes these two aims conflict a little. For
example, many tests require a fair amount of code to set up an
environment that resembles the one in which it would really be
used. But users don’t need to do that, because they’re writing real
programs, not tests. So the communication aspect gets slightly
obscured by the verification aspect.


Similarly, while we might write wonderful documentation
comments on each of our exported functions, our tests won’t
appear as part of the resulting autogenerated documentation. So
someone reading about your package on pkg.go.dev, for
example, will see your documentation, but not your code or
tests.
What we’d like is a way to write code that will be included in the
autogenerated documentation, and whose behaviour can be
automatically verified in the same way as the tests. That’s exactly
what Go provides, with a feature called executable examples.
A good example can be a more succinct or intuitive
way to convey the behavior of a library function
than its prose description, especially when used as a
reminder or quick reference.
And unlike examples within comments, example
functions are real Go code, subject to compile-time
checking, so they don’t become stale as the code
evolves.
—Alan Donovan & Brian Kernighan, “The Go
Programming Language”
An executable example is like a test function, but even simpler.
Its name must begin with the word Example, but it doesn’t take
any parameters, or return anything:
func ExampleDouble() {
    fmt.Println(double.Double(2))
    // Output:
    // 4
}
(Listing double/2)


Very straightforward. In this example, we call Double(2) and
print the result. A comment shows that the expected output is 4.
So what? Well, the neat thing is that this example function is
automatically included in the documentation for your package.
Here’s what that might look like on pkg.go.dev:
We can see that the program has been reformatted to put the
example code inside a main function, and that the expected
output is shown separately.
Indeed, you can run the example directly in your browser by
clicking the Run button on the website. Try it with the examples
from the script package:
•  https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bitfield/script
When you click Run, the example program is built, its
dependencies downloaded, the resulting binary run, and the


output displayed, all right in the browser. You can also edit the
example to do whatever you like, and try out your modified
program in the same way.
In fact, the examples are being run using the Go Playground, and
you can do the same kind of thing by browsing to:
•  https://go.dev/play/
and entering whatever program you like.
There are some common-sense restrictions on code that runs in
the playground (and thus on executable examples running on
pkg.go.dev). For example, there’s no networking available,
and the amounts of CPU, memory, and execution time are
limited to prevent abuse.
And, interestingly, you’ll find that the time and date returned by
time.Now in playground programs is always the same: 11pm on
Tuesday, November 10, 2009. This is a significant date for
Gophers, naturally, but it also means that the behaviour of time-
related code is deterministic.
When you run your examples locally, on your own machine,
using go test, these restrictions don’t apply, but just be aware
that they will apply to people running them on go.pkg.dev.
Your executable examples are not only included in the
documentation for your package, but they’re also run whenever
you run go test. What exactly is being tested here, then, you
might wonder? And how could such a test fail?
Let’s try changing the comment showing the expected output,
and see what happens. For example, suppose we make it “5”,
instead of “4”:
func ExampleDouble() {


    fmt.Println(double.Double(2))
    // Output:
    // 5
}
Running go test produces this result:
--- FAIL: ExampleDouble (0.00s)
got:
4
want:
5
FAIL
So that Output comment is not just a comment, it turns out. It’s
also an expectation that the test machinery will verify.
We check the behaviour of the function, in other words, by
asserting something about its standard output, ignoring any
leading and trailing whitespace.
We can use examples to test functions that print to standard
output by just calling them directly. Indeed, it’s easier to test
such functions using executable examples than it would be with
a regular test:
func ExamplePrintHello() {
    PrintHello()
    // Output:
    // Hello
}
If the function doesn’t happen to print anything, but instead
returns a result, we can use fmt.Println to print that result, as
in the Double example, and then verify it with the Output
comment.


We can also match multiline output, if necessary:
func ExamplePrintHello() {
    PrintHello()
    PrintHello()
    // Output:
    // Hello
    // Hello
}
If we know what lines should be present in the output, but not in
what order they will appear, we can use a different version of the
Output comment:
func ExamplePrintMap() {
    m := map[int]bool{
        1: true,
        3: true,
        2: false,
    }
    for k, v := range m {


        fmt.Println(k, v)
    }
    // Unordered output:
    // 1 true
    // 2 false
    // 3 true
}
By specifying the example’s unordered output, we’re saying that
each of these lines must be present in the output, but they can
appear in a different order to that given. This will likely be true
when ranging over a map, for example.
You might also be wondering how Go knows that
ExampleDouble, for instance, should be attached to the
documentation for the Double function. That’s easy: whatever
follows the word Example in the example name is taken to be
the name of the function it documents.
So if your function is called Greet, and you want to provide an
example for it, you would name that example function
ExampleGreet. The documentation tool will then automatically
associate the example with the Greet function.
What if you want to give more than one example for the same
function? You can do that by adding a suffix after the function
name:
func ExampleDouble_with2() {
    fmt.Println(double.Double(2))


    // Output:
    // 4
}
func ExampleDouble_with3() {
    fmt.Println(double.Double(3))
    // Output:
    // 6
}
(Listing double/2)
In fact, you can supply as many examples as you want, provided
each has a unique name, whose suffix begins with a lowercase
letter (for example, with2).
If you want to write an example for the whole package, rather
than any specific function, just name it Example:
func Example() {
    // this demonstrates how to use the entire package
    ...
}
Otherwise, Go will assume that whatever follows the word
Example is the name of the thing you’re documenting.
This works with types, too. Suppose you define some type User:
type User struct {
    Name string
}
(Listing user/1)
As part of your documentation, you can supply an example in
your test file:


func ExampleUser() {
    u := user.User{ Name: "Gopher" }
    fmt.Println(u)
    // Output:
    // {Gopher}
}
(Listing user/1)
What about methods on types? We can give examples for those
too. Suppose you add a method on User named NameString, to
return the user’s name as a string:
func (u User) NameString() string {
    return u.Name
}
(Listing user/1)
You can add an example to your test file that shows what this
method does:
func ExampleUser_NameString() {
    u := user.User{Name: "Gopher"}
    fmt.Println(u.NameString())
    // Output:
    // Gopher
}


(Listing user/1)
The convention is simple: the word Example is followed by the
name of the type we’re documenting (in this case User), then an
underscore, then the name of the specific method (here it’s
NameString).
It’s always a great idea to use code examples as part of our
documentation anyway, but if they’re just text, there’s a danger
that they’ll become out of date and stop working. Indeed, they
might never have worked in the first place.
We’ve probably all had the unpleasant experience of copying and
pasting an example code snippet from someone’s documentation,
and finding not only that it doesn’t behave the way we expected,
but that it doesn’t even compile. Not a good look for the project.
So it’s nice that Go provides a way for us to supply examples that
are automatically included in our documentation, that users can
edit and run in a web browser without even needing Go
installed, and that are also automatically checked every time we
run go test.
Go itself uses executable examples quite widely in the standard
library documentation (see the strings package
documentation, for instance). But most third-party packages
don’t bother to include examples, which I think is a shame. It’s
an easy way to add a lot of value to your package, and also lends
a rather professional appearance to the documentation.
In this chapter we’ve explored some interesting ways to think
about tests as communication tools. In the next, we’ll examine
the tests themselves in greater detail, with a focus on testing
error behaviour.
