8. Testing the untestable
Testing is an infinite process of comparing the
invisible to the ambiguous in order to avoid the
unthinkable happening to the anonymous.
—Saying
Most of the testing we’ve done so far in this book has been of the
“compare want and got” kind. We call some function with
prepared inputs, and compare its results to what we expected.
This is straightforward, as most of these functions have been
pure, meaning that their results depend only on their inputs, and
they have no side effects.
It’s not always that easy, though. Some functions and programs
can be challenging to test, at least at first sight. In the next few
chapters, we’ll look at a few techniques for testing the so-called
untestable, and we’ll see that many apparent difficulties melt
away if we can approach the problem in the right frame of mind.
First, how do we even start? When we begin a new project, we
may not even have a clear idea of exactly what it should do and
how it should behave. We need to do some prototyping, so let’s


talk about that process.
Building a “walking skeleton”
When starting a new project, to avoid getting bogged down in
too much detail, it’s a great idea to get something running as soon
as you can. This needn’t be feature-complete, or anything like it.
Indeed, it’s better to focus on running the simplest possible
program that does anything useful at all.
This has been aptly called a walking skeleton:
A walking skeleton is an implementation of the
thinnest possible slice of real functionality that we
can build, deploy, and test end-to-end.
We keep the skeleton’s application functionality so
simple that it’s obvious and uninteresting, leaving us
free to concentrate on the infrastructure.
—Steve Freeman and Nat Pryce, “Growing
Object-Oriented Software, Guided by Tests”
Software engineering is, it turns out, more about the connections
between components than the internals of the components
themselves. It will probably take you longer to design and debug
these connections than to write any individual component, so it’s
wise to start this process as early as possible.
Ideally, you’d just hook up a bunch of mostly dummy
components in what looks like the right way, run it, and see what
happens. You can iterate very fast on a walking skeleton,
precisely because it has so little actual functionality.
Once we’ve got a walking—or rather, running—skeleton, our
first priority is to move all its important behaviours into a
package, covered by tests. This provides a solid foundation on
which we can build each new increment of functionality, until
we eventually have the complete system.
But we shouldn’t abandon “runnability” at this point. Indeed, we
should try never to get too far away from a runnable program.


That means, naturally enough, that any changes we make must
be small and incremental, which we already know is a good
thing from a design point of view. So runnability helps keep our
development process from going too far off the rails.
Once we’ve discarded our skeletal prototype, and started
rebuilding it as an importable package, guided by tests, the next
priority should be to deploy this to production as soon as
possible.
There’s one piece of advice that I find myself giving
consistently during the very early days: get the
simplest version you can think of into prod, as soon
as you can. Focus solely on what’s needed to get a
“Hello, world” version of your new system up and
running in a real production environment. No more,
no less. I call this a Hello, Production release.
—Pete Hodgson, “Hello, Production”
Really? Production? Not a test environment?
Yup. If we want it to work in the real environment, then we’d
better try it there. After all, we implicitly test in production all
the time. We may as well accept that fact, and start doing it a
little more rigorously. However much we might test the system
in isolation, that only tells us how it behaves in isolation, which is
of limited value.
Once you deploy, you aren’t testing code anymore,
you’re testing systems—complex systems made up
of users, code, environment, infrastructure, and a
point in time. These systems have unpredictable
interactions, lack any sane ordering, and develop
emergent properties which perpetually and eternally
defy your ability to deterministically test.
The phrase “I don’t always test, but when I do, I test
in production” seems to insinuate that you can only
do one or the other: test before production or test in
production. But that’s a false dichotomy. All


responsible teams perform both kinds of tests.
—Charity Majors, “I test in prod”
The “hello, production” release will not only catch many show-
stopping issues that could affect the design of the system, but it
also means that, because we have the full pipeline working, we
could ship at almost any time if we had to. It’s hard to make
predictions, especially, as the saying goes, about the future.
There might not always be quite as much time to get things
finished as we expect.
A very bad time to find major design issues, on the other hand, is
when we’re close to the deadline, worn out, frazzled, and under
tremendous pressure to ship. If you’ve ever wondered why some
software seems a bit half-finished, well, now you know.
The remedy is to get the system half-finished as soon as possible,
and to maintain it always in a mostly-runnable state. So how do
we go from a walking skeleton to a runnable, but half-finished
system, guided by tests?
The first test
The first test of any system, or even any user story, is usually the
hardest to write, and that’s no surprise. Any non-trivial system
has lots of behaviours. When we look at it from the outside,
considering the user-facing behaviour, it can seem so
complicated as to defy testing altogether.
The trick is not to solve that problem. Instead, pick some much
smaller and simpler version of the problem, and solve that. Then
iterate.
Make the problem easy, then solve the easy problem
(warning: making the problem easy may be hard).
Kent Beck, “Is TDD Dead?”
For example, suppose you need to test some “buy product” HTTP
endpoint that takes some form data supplied by a user, processes
their payment details, and creates an order in the database.


That’s horrendous! No one could write a test for that kind of
thing straight off. And if we’re smart, we won’t even try.
Instead, make the problem simpler. Cut out the payment
handling, and don’t worry about creating orders. Just have the
handler ignore the form data altogether, and respond with a
simple “hello, world” message. Is that useful? No. But could we
test it? Yes. And could we then incrementally build up the
behaviour we need, guided by the test? Yes, indeed.
Solving big problems
Solving big problems is hard, so we don’t do that. Instead, we eat
the elephant one bite at a time. We say “if I had this component,
and that component, then I could solve the problem by plugging
them together”. If there’s a big complex behaviour, like “Be a
CRM system”, we break it down into lots of little behaviours, like
“Store customer’s name and address”, or “Generate invoices”.
Keep on breaking down behaviours into smaller units until you
get to something that you could actually imagine implementing.
This isn’t just shuffling paper: by analysing complex behaviours
into simpler ones, you’re defining them more precisely, adding
more and more detail to the overall design as you go.
The secret to building large apps is NEVER build
large apps. Break up your applications into small
pieces. Then assemble those testable, bite-sized
pieces into your big application.
—Justin Meyer, “Organizing A jQuery
Application”
Good software systems tend to be made up of lots of small
behaviours, each of which has a well-defined responsibility and
so is easy to understand and change. It stands to reason that if
we build software by breaking up complex behaviours into small,
well-specified units, the structure of our code will end up
reflecting that modular organisation too. And that’s something
we’ll appreciate as we come to maintain and extend it over time.
Designing with tests


Once you know what the behaviour of the system should be, the
next challenge is to design a good API for it. In other words, how
should users interact with this component? What should it be
called, what information do they need to pass to it, and what
should they expect in return?
It’s hard, in general, to come up with design ideas from nothing,
and the ideas we come up with usually don’t work out perfectly
in practice. Rather than try to design a function from scratch, in
isolation, it’s better to design its API by actually using it.
Indeed, a useful way to think about what we’re doing is not so
much writing a function as creating a language in which users can
elegantly express their programs. The functions we design as part
of our system are merely words in that language.
The purpose of abstracting is not to be vague, but to
create a new semantic level in which one can be
absolutely precise.
—Edsger W. Dijkstra, “The Humble
Programmer”
This implies that we should think about our APIs from the user’s
point of view first, not the implementer’s.
For example, suppose we’re designing the constructor API for
some LoadTester object. It has a lot of fields:
type LoadTester struct {
    URL               string
    Output, ErrOutput io.Writer
    HTTPClient        *http.Client
    Fanout            int
    UserAgent         string


}
(Listing load/1)
How should we write NewLoadTester, then? We might start
with something like the following:
func NewLoadTester(URL string, stdout, stderr io.Writer
    httpClient *http.Client, fanout int, userAgent stri
    *LoadTester {
    ...
}
(Listing load/1)
But this is annoying to use. Look how much information we have
to pass at the site of the function call:
got := load.NewLoadTester("https://example.com", os.Std
    os.Stderr, http.DefaultClient, 20, "loadtest")
(Listing load/1)
Not only are there too many arguments, most of them are usually
unnecessary, since they have sensible default values. For
example, users will usually want the load tester to write to
os.Stdout and os.Stderr, so there’s no point making them
specify the obvious values every time.
The ideal API would be one where if you need to specify some
parameter, you can, but if you don’t, you can omit it. A popular
pattern for this is to use functional options (see The Power of Go:
Tools for more about these).
With a functional-option API, if users don’t need to customise
anything, they can write a very concise function call:


got := load.NewLoadTester("https://example.com")
On the other hand, customisation is available when it’s needed:
got := load.NewLoadTester("https://example.com",
    load.WithOutput(buf),
    load.WithErrOutput(buf),
    load.WithHTTPClient(&http.Client{Timeout: time.Seco
    load.WithConcurrentRequests(20),
    load.WithUserAgent("loadtest"),
)
(Listing load/2)
Everyone’s happy.
Simple things should be simple, complex things
should be possible.
—Alan Kay, “The Wiki Way”
See Listing load/2 if you’re interested in how these functional
options are implemented. It’s not complicated, but it does require
a bit of extra boilerplate. However, this extra effort is well
worthwhile if it eliminates a large number of mandatory
parameters from your API.
Unexported functions
Throughout this book, and others, I’ve emphasised that we
should think about testing user-visible behaviours, not functions.
That leads us naturally to so-called external tests: that is, we write
the tests in a different package from the one we’re testing.
Your test files should always be in a different


package. Why? Because it forces you to test
behavior rather than implementation.
If you are in a different package, you only have
access to the API of the package; you do not have
access to internal state. So you are forced to treat
the package as a black box, which is a good thing.
That way, you are free to change internals without
breaking tests as long as the API does not change.
—Michael Sorens, “Go Unit Tests: Tips from the
Trenches”
This sometimes creates a puzzle when we want to test some
unexported function. As you probably know, in Go a function
whose name begins with a lowercase letter can only be called
internally: that is, from within the same package.
How can we call it from a test in a different package, then?
We can’t, but that’s okay. By making the function unexported,
we’re saying it’s not something users need to know about.
Therefore, it doesn’t need to be tested—at least, not directly.
Instead, we’ll end up testing these functions indirectly, by calling
the exported functions that use them. In other words, it’s the
user-facing behaviour that matters. Users don’t care how that’s
actually implemented, and nor should our tests.
We’ve adopted a habit of putting tests in a different
package from the code they’re exercising. We want
to make sure we’re driving the code through its
public interfaces, like any other client, rather than
opening up a package-scoped back door for testing.
—Steve Freeman and Nat Pryce, “Growing
Object-Oriented Software, Guided by Tests”
Tests are a special case of users, but not that special: they should
go through the “front door” like everybody else. After all, that’s
the door we really care about.


It does sometimes make sense to write a few internal tests. For
example, we discovered in the previous chapter that it’s difficult
to test hidden behaviour such as caching when you test through
the public API. The most straightforward way to check that the
cache is being correctly updated is to write an internal test, but
these should be kept separate from the others:
If you do need to test some internals, create another
file with _internal_test.go as the suffix.
Internal tests will necessarily be more brittle than
your [external] tests, but they’re a great way to
ensure internal components are behaving.
—Mat Ryer, “5 simple tips and tricks for writing
tests in Go”
Internal tests will necessarily be more brittle than external ones,
because by definition they care about implementation details. If
you change the implementation, even in a way that doesn’t
change the public behaviour, you’re likely to break internal tests
that rely on it—but that’s a price we sometimes have to accept.
Concurrency
Another kind of function can be tricky to test, not because we
can’t call it, but because its execution is concurrent. For example,
a function that uses a go statement to initiate a goroutine,
possibly returning before the goroutine has completed.
How, then, can we test that the function has done its job, if that
job may not actually complete for some unknown time? Writing
concurrent programs is hard in general, and testing is one of the
things that’s hard about it.
The best way to solve the problem of testing a concurrent API is
not to write a concurrent API. As we’ve seen before, a difficulty
that surfaces in testing can point to an underlying design issue.
The tests are a canary in a coal mine revealing by
their distress the presence of evil design vapors.


—Kent Beck, “Test-Driven Development by
Example”
Users find concurrent APIs hard to understand and call correctly,
too. The only way for an asynchronous function to communicate
with its caller is via channels, and channels are awkward for
users to consume. In essence, by providing a concurrent API, we
force users to write concurrent programs in order to call it. This
introduces a lot of complexity and many opportunities for
obscure and difficult bugs.
It’s much easier to test an API which is
synchronous: that is, it doesn’t export channels.
There’s a lot of cognitive overhead: who owns the
channel, what is the life cycle of the channel, who
closes it, is it buffered or unbuffered?
If you write your test in a synchronous way it
communicates the intent much better, and you don’t
have to worry about all of those additional
semantics.
—Alan Braithwaite, “Advanced Testing
Techniques”
Instead, a better plan is to leave concurrency to the caller. Dave
Cheney advances the following two examples in his Practical Go:
// ListDirectory returns the contents of dir.
func ListDirectory(dir string) ([]string, error)
// ListDirectory returns a channel over which
// directory entries will be published. When the list
// of entries is exhausted, the channel will be closed.
func ListDirectory(dir string) chan string


The first version, which returns a []string, is clearly
synchronous. It doesn’t return until the work is done, at which
point it returns the complete set of results all at once. This might
take a while, though, and consume arbitrary amounts of
memory, and meanwhile the user’s program must block.
The second version is equally clearly asynchronous, because it
returns a channel. The work will proceed concurrently, with
results being sent over this channel as they are generated. The
responsibility is on the user to figure out how to consume this
channel, and to know when the work is done.
What’s the most likely way for them to do that? Surely
something like this:
var entries []string
entriesChan := ListDirectory(dir)
for entry := range entriesChan {
    entries = append(entries, entry)
}
The for ... range loop continues to execute until the
channel is closed, at which point we have built up a slice
containing all the results in entries.
But this is precisely what the synchronous version of the function
returns! The following code is much simpler from the caller’s
point of view:
entries := ListDirectory(dir)
Indeed, the concurrency is of no value after all, since the user’s
program ends up blocking until all the results are known. It’s
effectively synchronous anyway.
So the synchronous version wastes the user’s time, while the
asynchronous version wastes their effort instead. Is there a better


way? Cheney suggests using a callback. That is, passing a user-
supplied function as an argument:
func ListDirectory(dir string, fn func(string))
In other words, the user calls ListDirectory and provides a
function that will be called repeatedly—the callback—each time
receiving the latest result as an argument. This is the pattern
used by standard library functions such as fs.WalkDir, for
example:
fs.WalkDir(fsys, ".", func(p string, d fs.DirEntry, err
    error {
    if filepath.Ext(p) == ".go" {
        count++
    }
    return nil
})
The function literal here receives each successive file path
discovered by fs.WalkDir as a string, and can do whatever it
needs to do with it. In this case, it increments a counter when the
file path matches a certain extension. (See The Power of Go:
Tools for more about fs.WalkDir and this example.)
It’s now up to the user to decide whether this work should be
concurrent. If so, they can call this function in a goroutine of
their own, and get on with other work while it runs. The point is
that concurrency isn’t required as part of the API: it’s optional.
But supposing that, as testers, we don’t have that option, what
should we do? For example, how should we test a pre-existing
asynchronous API? Well, we’ll need to write an asynchronous
test, using the wait for success pattern:


An asynchronous test must wait for success and use
timeouts to detect failure. This implies that every
tested activity must affect the system so that its
observable state becomes different. This sounds
obvious but it drives how we think about writing
asynchronous tests.
If an activity has no observable effect, there is
nothing the test can wait for, and therefore no way
for the test to synchronize with the system it is
testing.
—Steve Freeman and Nat Pryce, “Growing
Object-Oriented Software, Guided by Tests”
Let’s take the common case of starting some kind of network
server (for example, an HTTP server). Suppose its API is
something like this:
// returns immediately
serve.ListenAsync(addr)
Let’s first of all deal with an issue we’ll encounter testing any
kind of network server: which address to have it listen on.
Sometimes the server has to listen on a specific port to be useful:
for example, a DNS server must listen on port 53, because that’s
the DNS port.
For other servers the port number may not matter, but in order
to test servers in general we’ll need to be able to specify an
arbitrary port. The reason is straightforward: each test needs to
be able to start its own independent server, concurrently with
other tests.
We could just assign arbitrary port numbers to each test, but
that’s fragile: we might accidentally end up with two tests using
the same port, or worse still, one of the ports we assigned might
already be in use by some other program.
Let’s solve both problems by constructing a test helper that finds


a random port number that happens to be free. How can we do
that? There’s a trick.
If we start a network listener on port zero, that has the effect of
asking the kernel to assign us some random free port. We can
then ask the resulting listener what its address really is. That’s
the address we’ll use in the test:
func randomLocalAddr(t *testing.T) string {
    t.Helper()
    l, err := net.Listen("tcp", "localhost:0")
    if err != nil {
        t.Fatal(err)
    }
    defer l.Close()
    return l.Addr().String()
}
(Listing serve/1)
The actual address returned will probably be something like:
127.0.0.1:60606
So now we know how to get a unique, available network address
for each test, we can pass this to ListenAsync and proceed to
test the server by trying to connect to it.
We might start with something like this:


func TestListenAsyncEagerly(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    addr := randomLocalAddr(t)
    serve.ListenAsync(addr)
    _, err := net.Dial("tcp", addr)
    if err != nil {
        t.Fatal(err)
    }
}
(Listing serve/1)
Seems promising, but unfortunately it doesn’t work:
serve_test.go:16: dial tcp 127.0.0.1:60733:
connect: connection
refused
And a little thought will make it clear why not. Presumably,
since ListenAsync returns immediately, it uses a goroutine to
start the server concurrently.
But our test, having called ListenAsync, then instantly tries to
make the connection with net.Dial. This is unlikely to succeed,
because the server goroutine won’t have had a chance to run yet.
We’re being too eager. Concurrency is not parallelism, as Rob
Pike has observed, and while starting a goroutine is usually fast,
it’s not instant. Setting up the server and listener itself may also
take a while.
We need to wait a little. Should we add, for example, some fixed
delay to the test? Would, say, ten milliseconds be enough?


func TestListenAsyncWithSleep(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    addr := randomLocalAddr(t)
    serve.ListenAsync(addr)
    time.Sleep(10 * time.Millisecond)
    _, err := net.Dial("tcp", addr)
    if err != nil {
        t.Fatal(err)
    }
}
(Listing serve/2)
Well, maybe. But also maybe not. The test is now flaky. If we run
it ten times in a row, it will sometimes fail, sometimes pass:
go test -count 10 -run ListenAsyncWithSleep
--- FAIL: TestListenAsyncWithSleep (0.02s)
    serve_test.go:18: dial tcp :61707: connect:
connection refused
--- FAIL: TestListenAsyncWithSleep (0.01s)
    serve_test.go:18: dial tcp :61710: connect:
connection refused
The test’s goroutine is racing with the server goroutine:
sometimes the server starts first, sometimes it doesn’t. The
shorter the fixed sleep, the more likely the test is to flake, or
“flicker”:
A test can fail intermittently if its timeout is too
close to the time the tested behavior normally takes
to run. An occasional flickering test might not cause
problems, but as the test suite grows, it becomes


increasingly difficult to get a test run in which none
of the flickering tests fail.
—Steve Freeman and Nat Pryce, “Growing
Object-Oriented Software, Guided by Tests”
But making the fixed sleep longer also makes the test suite
slower overall. There’s no right length for this interval. If it’s
long enough that the test passes 95% of the time, then we’ll
waste a lot of time overall. Are we compelled to choose between
flaky tests or slow tests, or is there a better option? Maybe there
is.
Just waiting isn’t good enough by itself, it turns out. As Freeman
& Pryce observe, the trick is to wait for success. In other words,
the test needs to try the connection, understanding that it may
fail, and keep retrying until either it succeeds, or the test times
out:
func TestListenAsyncPatiently(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    addr := randomLocalAddr(t)
    serve.ListenAsync(addr)
    _, err := net.Dial("tcp", addr)
    for err != nil {
        t.Log("retrying")
        time.Sleep(time.Millisecond)
        _, err = net.Dial("tcp", addr)
    }
}


(Listing serve/3)
Note that we still call time.Sleep, but now it’s for a much
shorter time, because we call it inside a loop. It’s possible,
though unlikely, that the very first net.Dial will succeed, in
which case we never enter the loop at all.
If it fails, though, we log a message to say that we’re retrying,
sleep a little, and call net.Dial again. Let’s see what happens
when we run this test with logging enabled:
go test -run ListenAsyncPatiently -v
=== RUN   TestListenAsyncPatiently
=== PAUSE TestListenAsyncPatiently
=== CONT  TestListenAsyncPatiently
    server_test.go:17: retrying
    server_test.go:17: retrying
    server_test.go:17: retrying
    server_test.go:17: retrying
    server_test.go:17: retrying
--- PASS: TestListenAsyncPatiently (0.02s)
It looks as though the server is taking around five retries to
become ready, amounting to about five milliseconds in total. The
exact length of time isn’t the point here, though: the point is that
the test waits as long as it takes the server to start, but never
much longer than that.
One question may already have occurred to you, though: what if
the server never starts up at all? Will the test simply wait
forever?
No, because all tests time out after a certain period anyway (by
default, 10 minutes, but we can control this with the -timeout
flag to go test). However, we may not want to wait this long
to find out that the server isn’t starting.
Instead, we can add some timeout code to the test itself, using
the ever-useful time.Timer:


func TestListenAsyncWithTimeout(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    addr := randomLocalAddr(t)
    serve.ListenAsync(addr)
    timeout := time.NewTimer(100 * time.Millisecond)
    _, err := net.Dial("tcp", addr)
    for err != nil {
        select {
        case <-timeout.C:
            t.Fatal("timed out")
        default:
            t.Log("retrying: ", err)
            time.Sleep(time.Millisecond)
            _, err = net.Dial("tcp", addr)
        }
    }
}
(Listing serve/4)
As before, if the first connection attempt fails, we enter the retry
loop. But now we have a select statement that attempts to
receive from the timer’s channel (timeout.C). If this receive
succeeds, we have timed out, so we fail the test.


On the other hand, if there is no message for us on the timeout
channel, meaning that there’s still some time left, we sleep and
retry the connection as before.
One question that might occur to you is why don’t we just start
our own goroutine in the test that sleeps for a fixed duration and
then calls t.Fatal? Something like this, for example:
go func() {
    time.Sleep(100 * time.Millisecond)
    t.Fatal("timeout") // has no effect
}()
Alas, that’s no good. t.Fatal only works when it’s called from
the test’s own goroutine, which is also why we can’t use
time.AfterFunc, for example. A select statement does the
trick, though.
In practice, since we’re likely to need this “wait for server” code
in several tests, let’s outsource it to another helper function:
func waitForServer(t *testing.T, addr string) {
    t.Helper()


    timeout := time.NewTimer(100 * time.Millisecond)
    _, err := net.Dial("tcp", addr)
    for err != nil {
        select {
        case <-timeout.C:
            t.Fatal("timed out")
        default:
            t.Log("retrying: ", err)
            time.Sleep(time.Millisecond)
            _, err = net.Dial("tcp", addr)
        }
    }
}
(Listing serve/5)
The waitForServer helper cleans up the actual tests
considerably, leaving us free to express what we’re really testing
here:
func TestListenAsyncWithHelper(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    addr := randomLocalAddr(t)
    serve.ListenAsync(addr)
    waitForServer(t, addr)
    // test whatever we're really testing
}
(Listing serve/5)
Indeed, we could move all this setup code into a synchronous
helper function (startTestServer) that starts the server,
waits for it to be ready, and then returns. But you get the point:
when testing asynchronous APIs, wait for success to avoid


flakiness.
Concurrency safety
As we’ve seen, it’s wise to avoid exposing concurrency in your
API unless its purpose is to be concurrent. Synchronous APIs are
easier to understand, easier to use, and easier to test.
But even with an API that doesn’t use concurrency itself, it’s also
wise to assume that users will call it concurrently: this is Go,
after all. That means that we always need to be concerned about
avoiding data races, even when we’re not using concurrency
ourselves.
It’s common to see Go packages written to use some kind of
global mutable state, like this:
package kvstore
var data = map[string]string{} // no! data race!
func Set(k, v string) {
    data[k] = v
}
func Get(k string) string {
    return data[k]
}
(Listing kvstore/1)
How could there be a data race here? It doesn’t look like the
package even uses concurrency. Well, no, it doesn’t. But what if
the user’s program, or a test, does?


For example, consider a test like this:
func TestSmokeKVStore(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    var wg sync.WaitGroup
    wg.Add(1)
    go func() {
        for i := 0; i < 1000; i++ {
            kvstore.Set("foo", strconv.Itoa(i))
        }
        wg.Done()
    }()
    for i := 0; i < 1000; i++ {
        _ = kvstore.Get("foo")
        runtime.Gosched()
    }
    wg.Wait()
}
(Listing kvstore/1)
We start one goroutine doing a thousand Sets on the map, and
in the test’s own goroutine we concurrently do a thousand Gets.
This should be enough to trigger a crash if (as we suspect) the
kvstore package is not concurrency safe.


And indeed, that’s what we see:
go test
fatal error: concurrent map read and map write
There’s a data race, because the data map is shared between
multiple goroutines, at least one of those goroutines writes to it,
and there is no synchronisation to ensure that accesses to the
variable happen in a deterministic order.
The author of kvstore evidently wasn’t thinking about
concurrency, because they weren’t using concurrency. But in Go,
we always need to think about concurrency! At least, since any
function can be called concurrently, we need to assume that it
will be, and prepare accordingly.
One way to check concurrency safety is to call the package from
a smoke test, such as the one in our example, that repeatedly calls
the function from multiple goroutines, hoping to trigger a data
race. And in this case we succeeded.
But this is a matter of luck: a fatal error like this may not
actually happen. The order in which goroutines execute is
unpredictable: that’s why concurrency safety is an issue in the
first place. We don’t want flaky tests, and we can’t rely on luck to
detect a bug like this. But we have a secret weapon: Go’s race
detector.
By running the race detector on this test, using the -race flag,
we get the benefit of its ability to detect even many potential data
races:
go test -race
==================
WARNING: DATA RACE
Write at 0x00c000016360 by goroutine 8:
  runtime.mapassign_faststr()
      /usr/local/go/src/runtime/
map_faststr.go:203 +0x0


  kvstore.Set()
      .../kvstore/1/kvstore.go:6 +0x91
  kvstore_test.TestSmokeKVStore.func1()
      .../kvstore/1/kvstore_test.go:18 +0x66
Previous read at 0x00c000016360 by goroutine 7:
  runtime.mapaccess1_faststr()
      /usr/local/go/src/runtime/
map_faststr.go:13 +0x0
  kvstore.Get()
      .../kvstore/1/kvstore.go:10 +0x105
  kvstore_test.TestSmokeKVStore()
      .../kvstore/1/kvstore_test.go:23 +0xda
  ...
==================
--- FAIL: TestSmokeKVStore (0.00s)
    testing.go:1319: race detected during
execution of test
This is telling us, formally, what we already knew, informally:
calling Set and Get concurrently is not safe. The problem is
with the basic design of kvstore: it has global mutable state, so
it can’t safely be called concurrently.
Let’s see how to fix this, by using a mutex to synchronise access
to the map, and eliminating the global data variable. We’ll
create a new Store type to hold the data and the mutex that
protects it:


type Store struct {
    m    *sync.Mutex
    data map[string]string
}
func NewStore() *Store {
    return &Store{
        m:    new(sync.Mutex),
        data: map[string]string{},
    }
}
func (s *Store) Set(k, v string) {
    s.m.Lock()
    defer s.m.Unlock()
    s.data[k] = v
}
func (s *Store) Get(k string) string {
    s.m.Lock()
    defer s.m.Unlock()
    return s.data[k]
}
(Listing kvstore/2)
Now we can have multiple stores instead of just one, which is
useful, and each of those stores is in turn concurrency safe,
because its Set and Get methods use the mutex to (briefly) get
exclusive access to the map.
We haven’t created too much extra paperwork for users. The API


now looks like this:
s := kvstore.NewStore()
s.Set("a", "b")
...
Let’s try our smoke test, with the race detector enabled:
go test -race
PASS
While the race detector is a wonderful tool, it can’t detect every
possible data race in the program. It can only inspect the code
paths that happen to be executed by a given test. A smoke test
can help, but we can’t guarantee to catch everything.
This is a limitation of testing in general. We can’t just bang out
some unsafe code and assume the tests will catch any problems.
Tests are not a substitute for thinking:
We say, “I can make a change because I have tests.”
Who does that? Who drives their car around
banging into the guard rails?
—Rich Hickey, “Simple Made Easy”
And however careful our smoke testing, we may not be able to
put enough load on the system to actually trigger a race. Indeed,
data races are most likely to cause crashes in production, at times
of peak demand. In other words, exactly when you don’t want
them.
Long-running tasks
One common application for concurrency in Go is to enable long-
running tasks to proceed independently. For example, any
function that calls an external network service, such as a remote
API, could in principle take a long time. Or we might need to
execute some lengthy batch job, such as a backup, in a goroutine


so that we can get other work done while we’re waiting.
In cases like these, as with any other concurrent job, we may
need a way to cancel the job, either because some other event has
rendered it unnecessary, or perhaps because we simply got tired
of waiting.
The context package is the standard way to cancel or time out
concurrent tasks in Go, and it works like this. The caller creates a
context.Context object and passes it to the potentially long-
running function. When the caller gets bored, it can cancel the
context, signalling the job that it should terminate.
We saw earlier in this chapter how to time out slow operations in
a test, using time.Timer, for example. When testing functions
that take a context, though, we have a built-in timeout facility, in
the context package itself.
Suppose we need to test some function RunBatchJob, for
example. Under test conditions, it should return fairly quickly,
but it might take a long time, or even hang. We want to detect
that without slowing down our tests too much.
We could write something like this:
func TestRunBatchJob(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(context.Backgrou


        10*time.Millisecond)
    defer cancel()
    go func() {
        batch.RunBatchJob(ctx)
        cancel()
    }()
    <-ctx.Done()
    if errors.Is(ctx.Err(), context.DeadlineExceeded) {
        t.Fatal("timed out")
    }
}
(Listing batch/1)
First, we create a context with a pre-set timeout of 10ms. We
defer calling its cancel function, to make sure that however the
test exits, the operation will be cancelled, to avoid wasting time
or resources. Next, we start the operation itself, asynchronously,
by calling RunBatchJob in a little goroutine and passing it the
context.
Now, we almost certainly need to wait a bit, so we block on
receiving from the context’s Done channel, to give the job a
chance to run.
As you probably know, a blocked channel receive statement is
unblocked when the channel is closed, and a so-called close-only
channel is a common idiom in Go programs. No messages will
actually be sent on such a channel: the closing of the channel is
the message.
So the test will wait for something to happen, and only proceed
once the context’s Done channel is closed. This will be for one of
two reasons: either the job completed normally, or it ran too long
and the context timed out.
Let’s see how that works. Suppose RunBatchJob is behaving
well, and returns within the specified time. In this case, the little
goroutine calls cancel() itself and exits. This in turn unblocks
the receive from ctx.Done() in the test’s main goroutine,


allowing the test to proceed.
At this point, we know the context is done, one way or the other:
either the job has completed normally, or the timeout has fired.
In order to find out which it was, we now check the value of
ctx.Err().
In the happy path, the job completed on time, and so the context
was cancelled by us. In this case, the value returned by
ctx.Err() will be context.Cancelled. This is as expected,
so that’s the end of the test: pass.
On the other hand, what happens if RunBatchJob takes too
long? Now the 10ms timer will fire, and the Done channel will
be closed, allowing the test to proceed. But when we check the
reason (by looking at ctx.Err()), we will find that it is
context.DeadlineExceeded, meaning that the context timed
out. That’s a problem, so we fail the test with t.Fatal.
The exact details of this example don’t matter, but the main idea
is that, when testing a potentially long-running operation that
takes a context.Context, we can pass it a context with a
timeout. We start the operation asynchronously, and wait on the
context’s Done channel. When it’s done, we check to see if the
context timed out.
User interaction
Some simple-looking functions can be quite tricky to test in Go,
because they interact directly with the user’s terminal. Here’s an
example:
func Greet() {
    fmt.Print("Your name? ")
    var name string
    fmt.Scanln(&name)


    fmt.Printf("Hello, %s!\n", name)
}
(Listing greet/1)
The resulting interaction might go something like this:
Your name? John
Hello, John!
Very friendly. Now let’s try to write a test for the Greet
function, starting with calling it:
func TestGreet(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    greet.Greet()
}
(Listing greet/1)
We run into a problem straight away, though: how and when
should this test fail?
Greet doesn’t return anything, so there’s no result value to
check. Let’s run the test anyway and see what happens:
go test
Your name? Hello, !
PASS
ok      greet   0.193s
So we have a useless test, that tests nothing and can’t fail, and it
also prints junk to the terminal, cluttering up the test results. Not
good. Should we just give up, and reject this function as
untestable?
Maybe. But maybe there’s something we can do. The first
question to ask, as usual, is “What are we really testing here?”


The behaviour we want is something like this: Greet prints a
prompt, reads a string as input, then prints a greeting
incorporating that string.
When you put it that way, it becomes clear that Greet interacts
with the user in two separate ways: “printing”, that is, writing to
some io.Writer, and “reading”, that is, reading from some
io.Reader. This insight is the key to writing a useful test.
Let’s start with the first problem: how to test that Greet prints a
prompt. We saw in the earlier chapter on test data that a
*bytes.Buffer implements the io.Writer interface, so it’s
something we can print to. And because we can then interrogate
the contents of the buffer, we can find out exactly what was
printed.
This sounds like a potential way forward, but there’s still a
problem. Here’s the code in Greet that prints the prompt
message:
func Greet() {
    fmt.Print("Your name? ")
    // ...
}
This code calls fmt.Print, which doesn’t use some io.Writer
variable; it just prints to the terminal.
But how does fmt.Print know that it should print to the
terminal anyway? Is that just hard-wired somehow? Let’s take a
look at the source code of the fmt package and see:
func Print(a ...any) (n int, err error) {
    return Fprint(os.Stdout, a...)
}


It turns out that fmt.Print is just a thin wrapper around
another function fmt.Fprint, supplying os.Stdout as its first
argument, along with whatever values the user passed to Print.
So the more general function is Fprint, which can print to any
writer.
So how can we make the Greet function print somewhere else,
given that it uses Print rather than the more flexible Fprint?
For example, how could we make it print to a buffer created in a
test?
Our first idea might be to assign that buffer to the os.Stdout
variable, but this is a bad idea. Firstly, if this happens in parallel
tests we would have a data race. Secondly, we don’t have
exclusive use of os.Stdout: Go needs it too, for example when
printing the test results.
A function that’s hard-wired to print to os.Stdout is hard to
test in general. So we don’t test that function. We test this
function instead, which takes an io.Writer, and prints to it:
func Greet(out io.Writer) {
    fmt.Fprint(out, "Your name? ")
    var name string
    fmt.Scanln(&name)
    fmt.Fprintf(out, "Hello, %s!\n", name)
}
(Listing greet/2)
We’ve pulled off another magician’s switch, replacing a tricky
problem (how to safely replace os.Stdout) with an easy one:
how to create an io.Writer in the test, and pass it to the
Greet function.
This is straightforward to solve:


func TestGreet(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    buf := new(bytes.Buffer)
    greet.Greet(buf)
    want := "Your name? Hello, !\n"
    got := buf.String()
    if want != got {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing greet/2)
And, of course, if we’d written this test first, this is exactly the
kind of idea we would have come up with. Knowing that we
needed to pass an io.Writer to the function, we would have
designed it to take one as a parameter. We simply can’t write
untestable functions when the test comes first.
Fine, but what if this is a legacy system? What if the Greet
function has already been written, without being guided by tests,
and now the job of adding a test after the fact has landed in our
unwilling lap? Is there anything we can do?
Indeed there is: we can refactor the function to accept an
io.Writer, as we’ve done here. Now the test becomes easy to
write, so we write it. Legacy systems that weren’t designed to be
testable can usually be refactored in a fairly simple way to make
them testable, as in this example.
However, this test is still too feeble. It tests that Greet prints


something, successfully, but it doesn’t test that it then reads
anything.
Let’s turn to the second problem, then: reading “user input”.
How does fmt.Scanln know where to read input from,
anyway? Could it be simply a convenience wrapper around some
other function, as we found previously with fmt.Print?
Let’s take a look:
func Scanln(a ...any) (n int, err error) {
    return Fscanln(os.Stdin, a...)
}
Just as before, we’ve found a more general API (Fscanln)
concealed behind a more convenient one (Scanln). And, just as
before, we can refactor our function to call fmt.Fscanln
directly, passing it some io.Reader to read from:
func Greet(in io.Reader, out io.Writer) {
    fmt.Fprint(out, "Your name? ")
    var name string
    fmt.Fscanln(in, &name)
    fmt.Fprintf(out, "Hello, %s!\n", name)
}
(Listing greet/3)
Now all we need in the test is something that satisfies
io.Reader, and that we can pre-load with some string
representing what the “user” types at the prompt.
Here’s a simple way to construct just such a reader, using
strings.NewReader:


func TestGreet(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    buf := new(bytes.Buffer)
    input := strings.NewReader("fakename\n")
    greet.Greet(input, buf)
    want := "Your name? Hello, fakename!\n"
    got := buf.String()
    if want != got {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing greet/3)
By supplying the input and the output streams as parameters to
the function, we make it far easier to test. But what about the
real program? When we call Greet from main, what values
should we pass it for in and out so that it will read and write to
the user’s terminal?
Well, we already know the answer to that:
func main() {
    greet.Greet(os.Stdin, os.Stdout)
}
So now that we’ve succeeded in crafting a test for Greet, we can
ask: is it a good test? Are there any bugs in Greet that a more


demanding test (or simply a more imaginative choice of test
data) might uncover?
My friend Mary Jo suggested this modification to the test, for
example:
func TestGreet(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    buf := new(bytes.Buffer)
    input := strings.NewReader("Mary Jo\n")
    greet.Greet(input, buf)
    want := "Your name? Hello, Mary Jo!\n"
    got := buf.String()
    if want != got {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing greet/4)
Let’s see if her choice of test input behaves differently to mine:
--- FAIL: TestGreet (0.00s)
    -   "Your name? Hello, Mary Jo!\n",
    +   "Your name? Hello, Mary!\n",
What’s going on? Have we accidentally written a sexist function
that doesn’t listen to women?
Or is there a more subtle, if no less serious, problem? Actually,
the clue lies in a closer reading of the documentation for


fmt.Fscan:
// Fscan scans text read from r, storing successive
// space-separated values into successive arguments...
The key phrase here is “space-separated”. In other words, Fscan
treats spaces in the input as delimiters. When we ask it to read a
string value, as in this example, it stops when it sees the first
space, and returns everything it’s read up to that point. The
remainder of the input is simply lost. That’s bad news for Mary
Jo, and everybody else who happens to have a name containing
spaces.
By being a little more imaginative in our choice of test inputs, or
perhaps by having a more diverse team of contributors, we
successfully uncovered an important bug. And this is the kind of
situation where fuzz tests, which we discussed in a previous
chapter, could also be very helpful in generating new test cases.
So, just out of interest, what should we have used instead of
fmt.Fscan?
Whenever we’re interested in reading lines of input, as opposed
to bytes, for instance, then a bufio.Scanner is a good choice:
func Greet(in io.Reader, out io.Writer) {
    fmt.Fprint(out, "Your name? ")
    scanner := bufio.NewScanner(in)
    if !scanner.Scan() {
        return
    }
    fmt.Fprintf(out, "Hello, %s!\n", scanner.Text())
}


(Listing greet/5)
bufio.NewScanner takes an input stream—that is, some
io.Reader—and returns a scanner object that will read from
the stream. We can then call its Scan method to ask it to do
some scanning. If it successfully scanned a line, the method
returns true, and we can then get the line by calling Text().
One issue here is what to do if Scan returns false, meaning that
no input was read. Well, we can’t return an error from Greet
without changing its signature, and we don’t want everyone who
calls this function to have to check for some error which will
rarely happen in the real program: that would be irritating.
It also doesn’t really make sense to choose a default name if we
can’t read one from the user. The best thing in this situation is
probably just to do nothing and return.
Command-line interfaces
We’ve discussed in previous chapters how important it is to make
sure that our system is always runnable, or at least not too far
away from being runnable. One reason for this is to avoid the
embarrassing situation where all your tests pass, but the program
doesn’t actually work when the user runs it.
If the program is well-designed, then as much of its important
behaviour as possible will be implemented as an importable
package. And if we’ve built that package guided by tests, then we
should feel reasonably confident that it’s correct.
But there’s one important function that we can’t easily test:
main. And if that doesn’t work, nothing else will. So it’s worth
asking: what could be wrong with the main function?
Well, quite a lot, actually. It could do nothing at all, or if it calls
into the package, it could do it the wrong way, or it could ignore
the user’s command-line arguments and options, or misinterpret
them. It could crash or panic if arguments are missing or invalid.
As long as all this logic is in main, it’s difficult to test without


compiling and invoking the binary. Sometimes that’s an
appropriate thing to do, and we’ll talk about a convenient way to
do it in the next chapter. But for now, let’s think about how we
could get that logic out of the main package and put it
somewhere we can directly test it.
There’s a bunch of stuff that almost all command-line tools have
in common, regardless of what they actually do. They usually
take arguments and flags, they may reference environment
variables or configuration files, they might read from their
standard input, and they usually write to their standard output or
standard error.
Let’s refer to these aspects of the program’s behaviour as its
command-line interface (CLI), as distinct from whatever it is that
the program actually does.
So how can we test the command-line interface, specifically? For
example, if the program takes a command-line argument, how
can we test that supplying this argument actually has the desired
effect?
For example, suppose we’re writing a timer program whose job is
simply to wait for a specified period, then exit. Users might
interact with it by running the binary with a command-line
argument, like this:
timer 10s
Starting a timer for 10s...
[time passes]
...done.
Since specifying the timer period is an important part of the user
interface, we’d like to test that the program interprets that
argument correctly. It will presumably do so by looking at the
value of os.Args.
How could we supply arbitrary arguments to the program from a
test, then?


One effective, but rather laborious, way would be to build it, by
executing go build as a subprocess in our test, and then
executing the resulting binary. That’s doable, but it’s an awful lot
of work just to get some arbitrary values into os.Args.
One way around this problem, suggested by Mat Ryer and others,
is to have main do nothing but call some other function and pass
it os.Args:
func main() {
    timer.Main(os.Args)
}
You might recognise this as the same refactoring pattern we used
in the previous section, on testing user interaction. In that earlier
case, we passed I/O streams to the function. Here, we pass its
command-line arguments instead.
Now it’s easy to test the program’s argument-handling behaviour
by passing arbitrary arguments to timer.Main:
func TestTimer(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    args := []string{"program", "arg1", "arg2", "arg3"}
    timer.Main(args)
    ... // test something
}
That takes care of invoking the program with arbitrary
arguments, but it’s still not clear how to test what it actually does
as a result.
And maybe we don’t need to. After all, what are we really testing
here? Essentially, that the program correctly interprets its


command-line arguments.
All the test needs to show is that, given the argument 10ms, for
example, the program understands that it should sleep for 10ms.
The sleeping behaviour itself is not part of the interface testing.
We can presume this is tested separately, in isolation from the
CLI.
So how can we check only that the program correctly parses its
arguments, without having to test the sleeping as well?
A simple way to do this is to break up its behaviour into two
functions, ParseArgs and Sleep:
func main() {
    interval := timer.ParseArgs(os.Args)
    timer.Sleep(interval)
}
(Listing timer/1)
Assuming Sleep is independently tested, all we need to worry
about here is testing ParseArgs. And because that’s a pure
function, this is now quite straightforward:
func TestParseArgs(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    want := 10 * time.Millisecond
    got := timer.ParseArgs([]string{"timer", "10ms"})
    if !cmp.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))


    }
}
(Listing timer/1)
With a program this simple, that’s just about all we need. But
you can imagine that if there were two or three configuration
parameters, this API would start to become annoying to use.
ParseArgs would have to return two or three values, and it’s
hard to scale much beyond that.
When that’s the case, we can group together all the necessary
config settings into a single struct. Since this object represents a
timer that’s configured in a specific way, let’s call it simply a
Timer:
type Timer struct {
    Interval time.Duration
}
(Listing timer/2)
It makes sense that Sleep now becomes a method on the timer,
since it needs access to its configuration:
func (t Timer) Sleep() {
    time.Sleep(t.Interval)
}
(Listing timer/2)
The main function still looks reasonable, but now the
configuration can scale to as many parameters as we want,
without creating burdensome paperwork:


func main() {
    t := timer.NewTimerFromArgs(os.Args)
    t.Sleep()
}
(Listing timer/2)
Testing the command-line interface is now a matter of calling
NewTimerFromArgs with some arbitrary arguments, and
checking that we get back the expected value of Timer:
func TestNewTimerFromArgs(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    args := []string{"program", "10s"}
    want := timer.Timer{
        Interval: 10 * time.Second,
    }
    got := timer.NewTimerFromArgs(args)
    if !cmp.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing timer/2)
One answer to the vexed question of how to test CLI tools, then,
is to decouple the command-line interface from the rest of the
program, and test them both separately. A decoupled design is a
better design, as we’ve seen throughout this book.


But sometimes there’s no substitute for actually running the
program directly and seeing what it does, especially when we
want to test what output and error messages the user should see
in different circumstances.
In the next chapter, we’ll look at a neat way to do this, using test
scripts.
