11. Suite smells
A friend had just started a consulting gig with a new
team, so I asked him, “How are they doing?” He
said, “They’re writing legacy code, man.”
—Michael Feathers, “Working Effectively with
Legacy Code”
We’ve talked a lot in the book so far about specific techniques for
writing individual tests, especially in difficult circumstances. In
this final chapter we’ll turn our magnifying glass on to the test
suite: that is, the whole collection of tests for a particular project
or system, considered as a whole.
We’ll be hunting for certain problems which are known to lurk in
the darker corners of test suites, and looking at some ways to
address them. How should we assess the overall quality of tests
for a given project? How can we go about extending and
improving them?
No tests
Let’s start with a problem that affects a good many projects, even
today: a complete lack of tests. If you’re relatively new to the


industry, this might surprise you: “Doesn’t everyone write tests?
Isn’t it considered best practice?”
Sure. But best practice is what a company says it does. What
actually goes on is another matter. In the startup phase, speed is
more important than maintainability. Assuming the product
makes it to market, the business focus will naturally be on rapid
growth, rather than building solid foundations for the long term.
Eventually, though, the cost of adding anything to an untested
codebase becomes unmanageable. Indeed, the cost of touching
the code at all becomes so high that everyone starts finding
excuses not to do it. What can we do?
The answer is pretty simple: write some tests! You don’t need to
get permission. Just go ahead and do it. If you’re tasked with
touching some small piece of the code that isn’t tested, add a
test, then complete your task.
Sometimes people feel nervous about doing this, because they
haven’t obtained everybody’s buy-in, perhaps from a company-
wide conversation about whether or not testing is a good idea.
Don’t worry about this. It is a good idea. Just go do it.
You don’t need to convince the customer (or your
manager) that code quality is important. You just
need to convince yourself.
—Robert C. Martin
It’s hard to imagine a sensible engineering manager getting upset
about someone writing tests, but I suppose it’s possible. One of
this book’s reviewers warned me that this “guerilla testing” idea
could get someone fired. Well, okay; don’t go crazy, but I don’t
think anyone should need to get permission to do their job well.
Every organization, team, and project is different,
and provocative as it may sound, that shouldn’t
affect how the developers work. At the end of the
day, it’s you who’ll make changes to the software
and fix the bugs, irrespective of the quality


assurance process. Therefore, it’s in your interest
that the software be both testable and tested.
—Alexander Tarlinder, “Developer Testing:
Building Quality Into Software”
If you do get fired as a result of applying the advice in this book,
that’s probably for the best, all things considered. But if it
happens, please get in touch, and I’ll make it my personal
mission to get you a job with a better company: one where
people are rewarded, not punished, for producing software that
actually works.
The development teams at many companies are
focused on high-level business goals, lack any direct
incentive to improve code quality, and perceive an
investment in code quality to be at odds with
shipping on-time… No one is paying, rewarding, or
pressuring them to maintain a high level of code
quality.
—Mike Bland, “Goto Fail, Heartbleed, and Unit
Testing Culture”
Not only do you not need permission for writing tests, you also
don’t need to convince your co-workers to do it. Testing isn’t a
religion, and it doesn’t need converts. Write good software the
way you do it, and let others do it their way.
If your way is better, people will eventually come around to it.
You don’t need to nag them, proselytise them, or lecture them
about testing. Don’t be the person who fights for an idea: be the
person who has ideas worth fighting for.
There’s no room for testing religions; do what
works.
—Tim Bray, “Testing in the Twenties”
Most developers, once they’ve experienced the joy and the
lightness of heart that comes from working on well-tested code,


become enthusiastic advocates for it themselves. No fighting
needed.
Once you’ve worked on a system with extensive
automated tests, I don’t think you’ll want to go back
to working without them. You get this incredible
sense of freedom to change the code, refactor, and
keep making frequent releases to end users.
—Emily Bache, “The Coding Dojo Handbook”
Legacy code
Adding tests to a codebase that doesn’t have them can be a
daunting prospect, but let’s take it one step at a time. You only
need to test what you touch.
Suppose you have some monster function, and you need to make
a change to line 1337 of it. The prospect of writing a test for the
entire function fills you with horror and sadness (I’ve been there).
Instead, use the divide-and-conquer technique.
See if a small block of lines around where you’re working can be
extracted into its own little function. If so, do this, add a little
test for the little function, and make your change, leaving the
rest of the code alone. Repeat this process every time you touch
some part of the system.
Over time, tested areas of the code base surface like
islands rising out of the ocean. Work in these
islands becomes much easier. Over time, the islands
become large landmasses. Eventually, you’ll be able
to work in continents of test-covered code.
—Michael Feathers, “Working Effectively with
Legacy Code”
The nice thing about this strategy is that any effort you put into
test writing will automatically end up right where it’s needed:
those parts of the system where you’re regularly making changes.
Of course tests for everything would be great, but we have to start


somewhere, and right now, that’s here.
If you have a big system, then the parts that you
touch all the time should be absolutely rock solid, so
you can make daily changes confidently. As you
drift out to the periphery of the system, to parts that
don’t change often, the tests can be spottier and the
design uglier without interfering with your
confidence.
—Kent Beck, “Test-Driven Development by
Example”
But what if you can’t add a test for something because the
function is untestable? You could refactor it to be testable, but
that’s not safe, because you don’t have a test. It’s Catch-22.
This dilemma is characteristic of legacy systems, otherwise
known as “here be dragons” code:
Legacy code is code without tests, but more
importantly, it’s code that isn’t designed with
testability in mind. Such code tends to be riddled
with temporal coupling and indirect input. It houses
a multitude of monster methods, and its components
are intertwined in a bizarre web of dependencies
that have spun out of control. Adding any kind of
test to such code may be no small feat.
—Alexander Tarlinder, “Developer Testing:
Building Quality Into Software”
Making changes to a system like this is risky, but making them
without the support of tests is even more dangerous:
Changes in a system can be made in two primary
ways. I like to call them “Edit and Pray” and
“Cover and Modify”. Unfortunately, “Edit and
Pray” is pretty much the industry standard.
—Michael Feathers, “Working Effectively with


Legacy Code”
Can we do better? Here’s one emergency rescue procedure for
untestable functions that I’ve used successfully. Ignore the
existing function and write a test for the function you’d like to
have. Then make that test pass by writing a new function from
scratch. Finally, delete the old function.
Legacy systems aren’t much fun to deal with, but on the plus
side, they usually work pretty well. That’s how they got to be
legacy systems. Whatever bugs remain are at least well
understood, and people know how to work around them.
We usually don’t need to make many changes to legacy systems,
and when we do, a combination of testing and refactoring can
make it safe. The important thing to remember about legacy
systems is to avoid writing more of them.
The system turns to spaghetti really, really fast.
Complexity isn’t one mistake you make, it’s
hundreds or thousands of mistakes made by many
people over a period of time. You don’t notice it
happening, and once it’s happened, it’s almost
impossible to fix. It’s so overwhelming, you never get
to it.
—John Ousterhout, “A Philosophy of Software
Design”
Insufficient tests
Some systems have tests, but not enough of them, or they’re not
very good. What can we do in this case? Apart from steadily
growing the test suite by applying the “test what you touch”
strategy outlined in the previous section, can we do anything to
fix the underlying causes of inadequate testing?
For example, maybe a developer is just in a big hurry, and skips
writing a test because they feel it will slow them down. Sure, but
sometimes steering is more important than speed. If the program
doesn’t work, does it really matter how fast you can write it?


You don’t save time if you save on quality. Because
it comes back. It’s like when someone asks me “I
need to lose a couple of pounds, do you have a tip
for me?” And I say, “Yeah. Donate blood.”
—Klaus Leopold, “Blockers: Treasures of
Improvement”
Of course, if someone is new to writing tests, it will be a slow
process at first, because they don’t know what to do. Once you
have a little experience, testing becomes much easier and faster.
Half the battle is just having the confidence to know that you can
test anything, if you put your mind to it.
A good way to build this confidence is to agree with your team
that for a short trial period, you’ll write tests for everything you
do. If anyone gets stuck on how to test something, the whole
team will pitch in to help.
When I work with teams, I often start by asking
them to take part in an experiment. For an iteration,
we try to make no change to the code without
having tests that cover the change. If anyone thinks
that they can’t write a test, they have to call a quick
meeting in which they ask the group whether it is
possible to write the test.
The beginnings of those iterations are terrible.
People feel that they aren’t getting all the work done
that they need to. But slowly, they start to discover
that they are revisiting better code. Their changes
are getting easier, and they know in their gut that
this is what it takes to move forward in a better
way.
—Michael Feathers, “Working Effectively with
Legacy Code”
Sometimes tests end up being insufficient or ineffective because
they’re written last. You might have noticed that, throughout this
book, we’ve seen many important advantages to writing tests


first. The most persuasive of those advantages for me is that it
just makes my work easier.
However, some people don’t feel this way, and that’s okay.
Instead, they find it easier to implement the behaviour first, and
then figure out how to test it. If the result is a correct program
with robust tests, then who cares what order those things are
written in?
For some people, [writing tests first] works fine.
More power to ’em. It almost never works for me in
a pure form, because my coding style tends to be
chaotic in the early stages, I keep refactoring and
refactoring the functions all the time.
There’s room for argument here, none for dogma. If
your engineers are producing code with effective
tests, don’t be giving them any static about how it
got that way.
—Tim Bray, “Testing in the Twenties”
It’s always tempting when you find a methodology that works
well for you to assume that it’s the right choice for everyone. But
people are just too diverse for that to be true. There’s no One
Right Way to develop software (or anything else).
I write tests first myself, as I mentioned. That suits me, and many
others, and it’s the method I teach and recommend to my
students. But it’s not a moral issue. There’s no point trying to
shame people because they don’t write their tests first, or getting
into arguments about how “my TDD is purer than yours”.
Instead, as Tim Bray suggests, judge by results. If someone is
producing great, well-tested code by writing tests last, more
power to ’em! Some very smart people work this way, so there
must be something to it.
On the other hand, if the code isn’t good, and the tests tend to be
feeble, optimistic, or missing altogether, one of the contributory
factors may be that the developers are trying to write tests last.
Switching to a test-first style, though unfamiliar at first, may


improve their results.
Ineffective code review
Code review is hard. Once code exists, people tend to get
defensive about it. It takes great tact and skill to guide someone
to improve their code after the fact, especially if it has to be done
through text alone. A face-to-face, or at least voice-to-voice,
conversation is much better.
Perhaps for this reason, most code review is rather cursory, and
often pays little attention to tests, instead preferring to focus on
little, line-by-line nitpicks and style issues. A more effective code
review strategy is to focus primarily on tests.
Try this ten-step checklist for code review:
1. Do we even know why this change is being made? What is
the business or user requirement that’s being addressed, or
bug that’s being fixed? If we don’t know this, how can we
possibly decide whether or not the proposed change does
what it’s supposed to?
2. For each thing the change is supposed to accomplish, is
there a test expressing that requirement? Does it really test
that behaviour, or just claim to?
3. Do the tests pass with a fresh checkout of the source code?
This might seem an obvious thing to ask, but it’s surprising
how often the answer is no. Presumably the tests pass on
the author’s machine, but they may have a hidden
dependency on the presence of some file, binary, or
environment variable. A fresh checkout on a different
machine can often catch these problems.
4. Do the tests detect obvious bugs in the behaviour of the
new code? Insert some bugs (review the chapter on
mutation testing for more about this) and see if the tests
catch them. If not, don’t approve the changes until the
tests can detect at least the bugs you thought of.


5. When the tests fail, do they produce accurate, helpful,
complete information about the failure? Would you have
to read the test code itself to understand the failure, or
does the message contain everything you need to diagnose
the bug? Exercise each possible failure path to check this.
6. If the new code accepts arbitrary data as input, has it been
fuzz tested? (See the chapter on fuzz testing for more
about this.) If not, add a fuzz test, and run it for a while. If
the new code accepts a slice, map, or string as input, does
it cope when those inputs are empty? Add test cases for
this and check that they pass. In general, do the tests
exercise the new code with a convincing sample and range
of possible inputs?
7. Do the tests completely cover the new code? If not, what
paths are left uncovered? Are any of them so trivial that
they can be verified by eye? Or are they in practice
unnecessary, and can they simply be removed instead?
8. Does the code do more than is required to pass the tests? In
other words, of the code paths that are covered by tests,
are they over-engineered? Could that code be simplified or
shortened, or just do less, and still pass the test? If so,
make those changes.
9. Do the tests test more than is required to verify the new
code? It’s always tempting to say to oneself, “While we’re
here, let’s add a test for…” In other words, do the tests
poke their noses into something that isn’t really their
business? Or are they brittle because in testing the new
code, they rely too much on the correctness of other code
in the system?
10. Is it clear from the test code alone how the system is
supposed to behave? If not, refactor the test to make this
clearer. Is the test itself relatively straightforward and
obvious? If you showed it to a customer or non-technical
business person, would they get the general idea? If not,
why not?


Optimistic tests
Even when tests provide both broad and deep coverage of
behaviour, they can still be too optimistic. That is, they’re
designed only to confirm that the system works, not to prove that
it doesn’t.
Surprisingly, one problem that optimistic tests can miss is when
the system does nothing at all.
For example, consider a test for some function user.Create,
like this:
func TestCreate(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    user.Create("Alice")
    if !user.Exists("Alice") {
        t.Error("Alice not created")
    }
}
(Listing user/5)
At first glance, this is plausible. We create a test user, Alice, and
check if she subsequently exists. If not, the test fails. That part is
fine. So, can you see what’s missing? If not, you might like to
take a minute to think about it before reading on.
It’s always worth asking of any test whether it rigorously checks
its preconditions as well as its postconditions. The developer’s
focus, naturally enough, tends to be on the state of the world
after the operation under test, but that can result in some risky
assumptions about its prior state.
Suppose Create actually does nothing. How could this test


pass? Only when Alice already exists. And would we know if that
was the case?
Our test checks that Alice exists after calling Create, but what’s
missing is a check that she doesn’t exist beforehand.
In other words, suppose we don’t clean up the database after
each test run, so if Alice was ever created, she’ll still be there.
And suppose someone later introduces a bug into Create that
prevents it from actually creating users.
To put it another way, here’s an obviously incorrect
implementation that nevertheless passes this test:
type User struct {
    Name string
}
var (
    m     = new(sync.Mutex)
    users = map[string]*User{


        "Alice": {
            Name: "Alice",
        },
    }
)
func Create(name string) {}
func Exists(name string) bool {
    m.Lock()
    defer m.Unlock()
    _, ok := users[name]
    return ok
}
(Listing user/5)
We thought we were testing Create, but we really aren’t,
because Create does nothing at all, yet the test doesn’t detect
that. Alice always exists, so the test always passes. This kind of
mirage test is especially dangerous, because it looks like you have
a test, but you don’t.
It turns out that Create needs not just to leave the world in a
state where Alice exists. What’s important about Create is that
it changes the world from a state where Alice doesn’t exist to one
where she does.
You might think that goes without saying, but we’ve just proved
that it doesn’t. We need to pay attention to preconditions as well
as postconditions, according to the contract that the system
under test is supposed to fulfil.
Let’s write a test that would catch this bug, then:


func TestCreate(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    if user.Exists("Alice") {
        t.Fatal("Alice unexpectedly exists")
    }
    user.Create("Alice")
    if !user.Exists("Alice") {
        t.Error("Alice not created")
    }
}
(Listing user/6)
The difference is very simple, but important: we check our
preconditions.
What about this test, then?
func TestDelete(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    user.Create("Alice")
    user.Delete("Alice")
    if user.Exists("Alice") {
        t.Error("Alice still exists after delete")
    }
}
Again, this looks reasonable on a cursory inspection. It creates
Alice, deletes her (sorry, Alice), and then ensures that she no
longer exists. What could be wrong with Delete that this test
wouldn’t catch?


Well, what if both Create and Delete do nothing at all? That
seems like a pretty major bug, yet this test doesn’t detect it.
There are no preconditions, so the outcome of the test is the
same whether Create and Delete actually have any effect or
not. The test isn’t wrong, as far as it goes: it just doesn’t go far
enough. There’s a pretty big loophole in it.
This kind of bug isn’t as unlikely as you might think, either. I’ve
made this exact mistake in the past: I stubbed out Create and
Delete methods with placeholders, then forgot that I hadn’t
finished them, because the test was passing. It’s easy to do.
What we’re missing here, in fact, is another precondition: that
the user does exist before we try to delete them.
func TestDelete(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    user.Create("Alice")
    if !user.Exists("Alice") {
        t.Error("Alice not created")
    }
    user.Delete("Alice")
    if user.Exists("Alice") {
        t.Error("Alice still exists after delete")
    }
}
(Listing user/6)
If Create doesn’t do anything, this test will fail at the first


check. If Delete doesn’t do anything, it’ll fail at the second.
In any non-trivial codebase, you’re pretty much guaranteed to
find at least a few tests that are optimistically feeble in this way.
Look for any test that doesn’t properly establish its preconditions,
and fix it. This will add a lot of value to the test suite overall.
Another example of this kind of problem is when the test fails to
check some important but implicit postconditions. For example, in
TestDelete, the explicit postcondition here is that Alice
shouldn’t exist after deletion, so what are we implicitly missing?
What else could a reasonable person ask for from a Delete
function?
As usual, a productive way to answer that is to think about
possible bugs in Delete. Suppose, for example, that Delete
mistakenly deletes not only Alice, but all users in the database.
That kind of thing is surprisingly easy to do, especially with SQL
queries (omitting a WHERE clause, for example).
If calling Delete on a single user instead nukes the whole
database, that’s a pretty major bug, wouldn’t you say? This test
doesn’t detect it, because it focuses only on what should happen,
and ignores what shouldn’t.
It is tempting to test that the code does what it
should do and leave it at that, but it’s arguably even
more important to test that it doesn’t do what it
shouldn’t do.
—Mike Bland, “Goto Fail, Heartbleed, and Unit
Testing Culture”
How could we detect such a bug, then? Quite easily, it turns out.
Here’s what we do. We create two users in the test, but delete
only one of them. Then we check that the one we deleted doesn’t
exist, and the one we didn’t delete still exists:


func TestDelete(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    user.Create("Alice")
    if !user.Exists("Alice") {
        t.Error("Alice not created")
    }
    user.Create("Bob")
    if !user.Exists("Bob") {
        t.Error("Bob not created")
    }
    user.Delete("Alice")
    if user.Exists("Alice") {
        t.Error("Alice still exists after delete")
    }
    if !user.Exists("Bob") {
        t.Error("Bob was unexpectedly deleted")
    }
}
This test has accumulated a bit of paperwork, so let’s refactor
that out into a helper function:


func TestDelete(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    createUserOrFail(t, "Alice")
    createUserOrFail(t, "Bob")
    user.Delete("Alice")
    if user.Exists("Alice") {
        t.Error("Alice still exists after delete")
    }
    if !user.Exists("Bob") {
        t.Error("Bob was unexpectedly deleted")
    }
}
func createUserOrFail(t *testing.T, name string) {
    t.Helper()
    user.Create(name)
    if !user.Exists(name) {
        t.Errorf("%s not created", name)
    }
}
(Listing user/7)
Who would have thought that there were so much scope for


things to go wrong with a seemingly simple Delete function?
Well, you would, because you’ve read this book.
If you find yourself, as a result, becoming thoroughly sceptical
about the idea that anything works the way it’s supposed to,
congratulations: you’re thinking like a tester.
Persnickety tests
Sometimes, though not often, people can take testing a bit too
much to heart, and test more than strictly necessary. As we’ve
seen, it’s much easier to err the other way, and leave out
important things such as preconditions and implicit
postconditions, like not deleting all the users in the database. But
overtesting does afflict some test suites.
For example, there are many things that a reasonable person
might expect from the system that nevertheless don’t really need
to be tested, because they’re pretty hard to miss in practice:
Generally, you don’t need to write down things like,
“The computer should not explode, the operating
system should not crash, the user should not be
injured, errors should produce error messages, the
application should load and not destroy other
applications, and execution should not take so long
that the user thinks the system has gone into an
infinite loop.”
—Gerald Weinberg, “Perfect Software: And
Other Illusions About Testing”
Beyond these “halt and catch fire” issues, it’s important to keep
tests focused on only the part of the system they’re supposed to
care about, and on only the behaviour that matters. They should
avoid checking for irrelevant things:
Specify precisely what should happen and no more.
In a test, focus the assertions on just what’s relevant
to the scenario being tested. Avoid asserting values
that aren’t driven by the test inputs, and avoid


reasserting behavior that is covered in other tests.
—Steve Freeman and Nat Pryce, “Growing
Object-Oriented Software, Guided by Tests”
In particular, don’t test for the impossible. Even though good
testers are pessimistic (they would prefer the term “realistic”),
they don’t waste time writing tests for situations that
mathematically can’t occur, such as a value being both true and
false at the same time. That’s taking scepticism too far.
To doubt everything or to believe everything are two
equally convenient solutions; both dispense with the
necessity of reflection.
—Henri Poincaré, “Science and Hypothesis”
Beware also of simply comparing too much. As we’ve seen in
some examples in this book, it can be convenient to compare a
function’s entire result against an expected value, rather than
individually checking each of its fields.
That makes sense when all the fields are affected by the
behaviour under test. But when they aren’t, checking irrelevant
fields makes the test brittle, and obscures its real purpose. The
same applies to checking entire strings or output files, when only
certain parts of the data are actually important.
The easiest way to avoid brittle tests is to check only
the properties you care about. Be selective in your
assertions. Don’t check for exact string matches, for
example, but look for relevant substrings that will
remain unchanged as the program evolves.
—Alan Donovan & Brian Kernighan, “The Go
Programming Language”
Watch out for tests that lazily compare output against a golden
file, for example, when the behaviour they’re testing is only
about a small subset of that file. And we saw in the chapter on
errors that most of the time a test should not assert the exact


value of an error, but only that there is some error, when there’s
supposed to be.
Some exposure to the idea of property-based testing, such as we
had in the chapter on fuzzing, can also be helpful for
constructing robust tests. For example, what’s important about a
result is often not its exact value, but some property of the value,
especially an invariant property.
I recently reviewed a program that needed to create a
“fingerprint” of a piece of data, for deduplication purposes. In
case the same data was submitted to the system later, the
fingerprint would enable the system to recognise it without
actually having to store all the data, which could be very large.
A cryptographic digest, or hash value, is an obvious way to do
this, so the program had a test something like this:
func TestFingerprint(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    data := []byte("These pretzels are making me thirst
    want := md5.Sum(data)
    got := fingerprint.Hash(data)
    if !cmp.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing fingerprint/1)
The implementation of Hash doesn’t matter, but let’s assume it’s
something like this:


func Hash(data []byte) [md5.Size]byte {
    return md5.Sum(data)
}
(Listing fingerprint/1)
Fine. But MD5 is insecure, so I suggested using a SHA-256 hash
instead:
func Hash(data []byte) [sha256.Size]byte {
    return sha256.Sum256(data)
}
(Listing fingerprint/2)
This broke the test, which makes no sense, because Hash works.
So what’s the problem?
Well, what are we really testing here? Not that Hash produces an
MD5 hash, specifically; that’s incidental. What matters is that the
same data should always hash to the same value, whatever that
value actually is. And, no less importantly, that different data
should hash to different values.
So we ended up with a test something like this instead:


func TestFingerprint(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    data := []byte("These pretzels are making me thirst
    orig := fingerprint.Hash(data)
    same := fingerprint.Hash(data)
    different := fingerprint.Hash([]byte("Hello, Newman
    if !cmp.Equal(orig, same) {
        t.Error("same data produced different hash")
    }
    if cmp.Equal(orig, different) {
        t.Error("different data produced same hash")
    }
}
(Listing fingerprint/2)
This test is better, because it doesn’t care about the
implementation details of Hash, such as which algorithm is used.
What it cares about is that the same input to Hash always gives
the same result, so it catches bugs like an unstable hash
algorithm or even a random result.
And, because a maliciously lazy implementation of Hash might
simply always return the same fixed value, the test also requires
that different data hashes to different values.
This isn’t completely bug-proof, of course. It’s possible, for
example, that Hash always produces the same value unless the
input is exactly “Hello, Newman”. We could use fuzz testing to
tackle this, or just a table test with a bunch of different inputs.
But you get the point. We made the test both less brittle and less
feeble without adding much extra code; all it took was a little
extra thinking.
Over-precise comparisons
Another way of overtesting is by making unnecessarily exacting
comparisons. For example, two near-identical floating-point
values may not actually compare equal in Go, because their


representation in memory is inherently imprecise. Floating-point
math involves a kind of lossy compression.
If some function returns a float64 result, then, it’s saying that
the exact value isn’t important, only that it should be close
enough. Let’s hope so, anyway, because we won’t get the exact
value, unless we just happen to luck on a number whose binary
expansion fits neatly into 64 bits.
A floating-point result that’s close enough will satisfy most users,
though, unless they’re mathematicians. Or perhaps game
programmers:
Wanting to support the original [DOOM] demos
means everything has to match exactly with the
original game, as the demos are simply a sequence
of input events, and the slightest calculation or
behavior difference can cause “desync”, ending up,
for example, with the player running into, and
shooting at, walls.
I hit one such case, trying to save space by reflecting
the quarter cycles of the sine table instead of storing
all of them, and this caused desync even though the
errors are at most 1/65536! On the bright side
though, the demos turn out to be really good
regression tests.
—Graham Sanderson, “The Making of RP2040
Doom”
So how can a test compare values in a suitably chilled-out way
that doesn’t sweat the smallest bits of precision? In general, all
we need to do is check that the difference between the two
numbers is smaller than some arbitrary epsilon value that we
choose in advance.
If you recall, this is what we did in the previous chapter when
we needed to compare two time.Time values expected to be
very close, but not identical. And the go-cmp package has a
built-in way of making such comparisons for floating-point
numbers:


if !cmp.Equal(want, got, cmpopts.EquateApprox(0, 0.0000
    t.Errorf("not close enough: want %.5f, got %.5f", w
}
The exact value of epsilon that gives you confidence in the
correctness of the answer will, of course, vary depending on the
situation. A good way to refine it is (with a passing test) to keep
making it smaller until the test fails. Then make it one order of
magnitude bigger.
Too many tests
This might sound like a nice problem to have, and for most
developers it would be. But every line of code in the project is a
form of technical debt, and if it doesn’t need to be there, it’s just
dead weight:
If we wish to count lines of code, we should not
regard them as “lines produced” but as “lines
spent”.
—Edsger W. Dijkstra, “On the cruelty of really
teaching computing science”
A test suite is like a garden: from time to time, it benefits from a
little judicious pruning. As the system evolves, some of its
behaviours will no longer be used, or needed. The tests for those
behaviours should be removed, along with their
implementations.
And as new tests are written, they may well render some older
tests unnecessary, or obsolete. Indeed, that’s very likely if we
gradually build up the system in small increments, as we’ve
discussed throughout this book.
For example, we might build a component that does ten things,
each of which has its own test. But once it’s complete, we might
able to replace those ten individual tests with a single test for the
whole component.


In this case, a better analogy is with scaffolding: the tests support
you and keep you safe during construction, but you can remove
them once the building is up.
This isn’t always the case, though. Suppose we took this idea to
the extreme, and just wrote a single test for the entire system.
Even if that were possible, it wouldn’t be a good idea. Sure, the
test would tell us if there’s a bug anywhere in the system. But it
wouldn’t tell us where.
Location, in other words, can be as important as detection. It
does the detective no good to know only that the murder suspect
is somewhere in North America. An exhaustive search of the area
would simply take too long.
If we agree that modularity is a desirable attribute of a well-
designed system, then the structure of the tests should reflect the
structure of the system itself. It should at least be possible, in
principle, to pull any particular component out, along with its
tests, and use it in isolation. If it’s not, then you don’t really have
components, just a big ball of mud.
Some duplication of tests is inevitable, then, and it’s not
necessarily a problem. Indeed, it’s useful to test some critical
behaviours from a variety of different angles, and in a variety of
ways. But we don’t need to test the same thing in the same way
more than once, so regular inspection and pruning of redundant
tests is helpful for the flourishing of a codebase.
A good way to decide whether a particular test is pulling its own
weight is to look at its delta coverage:
Herb Derby came up with this metric of “delta
coverage“. You look at your test suite and you
measure what coverage each test adds uniquely that
no other test provides.
If you have lots of tests with no delta coverage, so
that you could just delete them and not lose your
ability to exercise parts of the system, then you
should delete those tests, unless they have some


some communication purpose.
Kent Beck, “Is TDD Dead?”
The deltacoverage tool is an (experimental) attempt to
automate this.
In the same conversation, Martin Fowler suggests a more
intuitive, but no less useful, way of assessing redundancy in test
suites:
If you can’t confidently change the code, you don’t
have enough tests. But if you change the code and
you have to fix a bunch of tests, then you have too
many tests.
Martin Fowler, “Is TDD Dead?”
Test frameworks
The straightforward and lightweight style of testing we’ve used
in this book, relying only on the standard testing package
(plus go-cmp), doesn’t appeal to everyone. Some people would
prefer to write their tests in a different way, using other third-
party packages such as testify or ginkgo/gomega.
This is a snippet from a test written using testify, to give you
an idea what it looks like:
header := GetBasicAuthHeader("grafana", "1234")
username, password, err := DecodeBasicAuthHeader(header
require.NoError(t, err)
assert.Equal(t, "grafana", username)
assert.Equal(t, "1234", password)
And here’s a snippet of a test written using ginkgo and gomega,
which is even stranger:


var _ = Describe("Extensions", func() {
    Context("fetching app events", func() {
        It("no error occurs", func() {
            now := time.Now()
            before := now.Add(-10 * time.Minute)
            objs, err := target.GetEvents()
            Ω(err).ShouldNot(HaveOccurred())
            Ω(objs).Should(HaveLen(2))
            Ω(objs[0].GUID).Should(Equal("event1-guid")
            Ω(objs[0].CreatedAt).Should(BeTemporally("=
            Ω(objs[0].UpdatedAt).Should(BeTemporally("=
            Ω(objs[0].Type).Should(Equal("event1-type")
            ... // lots more 'should's
        })
    })
})
Weird flex, but okay. If you find this kind of thing appealing, I
celebrate your diversity. So what’s wrong with alternative test
frameworks like this?
Well, nothing. They’re just not necessary. Go itself already
provides everything we need to write clear, effective, and easy-
to-understand tests. There is nothing missing from Go that needs
to be supplied by some third-party package. Indeed, adding such


a package makes tests harder to understand, since now you have
to be familiar with the API of that package.
If you want to write clear, effective, and easy-to-understand tests
in a way that any Go programmer should be familiar with, then
the best way to do that is:
import "testing"
Even if plain old testing doesn’t appeal to you at first, stick
with it. The unfamiliar is almost always unappealing. Once it
becomes familiar, you’ll wonder why you ever had a problem
with it.
By contrast, adding a third-party framework adds an unnecessary
dependency to your project, but more importantly, it adds an
unnecessary learning curve for every new developer that joins
the project. It’ll be harder for them to understand the existing
tests, and to write new tests. The last thing we want to do is
discourage people from writing tests.
Let’s talk briefly about one specific reason that developers
sometimes reach for a third-party testing framework: to write
assertions. For example:
assert.Equal(want, got)
One problem with this way of expressing tests is that it presumes
the happy path. In other words, the test writer knows the
behaviour they expect, and they simply assert it. If the assertion
fails, the test fails.
Here’s what we see when a testify assertion fails, for example:
Not equal:
expected: 0
actual  : 1
This isn’t really helpful, because it merely reports that 1 does not
equal 0, which we knew already.
An assertion function suffers from premature


abstraction. It treats the failure of this particular
test as a mere difference of two integers, so we
forfeit the opportunity to provide meaningful
context.
—Alan Donovan & Brian Kernighan, “The Go
Programming Language”
A helpful test, by contrast, would explain what the failure means,
and perhaps even offer some suggestions about what bug might
be responsible:
if err == nil {
    t.Error("want error for empty slice; missing len()
}
Or:
if !called {
    t.Error("test handler not called—incorrect URL set
}
It’s possible to add helpful information like this in assertion-
based tests, of course, but hardly anyone does. The API doesn’t
do much to encourage it; if anything, it encourages you not to
think about the implications of a failure, and just move on to the
next assertion instead.
A slightly more subtle problem with test code written using
testify and friends is that it doesn’t look like real Go code.
Throughout this book we’ve discussed the value of being the first
user of your own package, by writing tests against it.
But real users don’t write assertions! A big advantage of standard
Go tests is that they look just like ordinary Go code, because
that’s what they are. Stick to the standard library for testing
unless there’s a really compelling reason to use something else.


Flaky tests
Flaky tests sometimes fail, sometimes pass, regardless of whether
the system is correct. There are many reasons for flaky tests, so
let’s look at a couple of them, with some possible solutions.
Timing issues can be a source of flakiness, as we’ve seen in
previous chapters. In particular, fixed sleeps in tests are a bad
idea (see the next section for more about these). Eliminate these
wherever possible and replace them with code that only waits as
long as strictly necessary.
When you need to test timing itself, use the shortest possible
interval. For example, don’t test a timer function with a one-
second duration when one millisecond would work just as well.
We’ve also seen examples in this book of where the time of day
can affect the test. As in those examples, we can eliminate this
cause of flakiness by turning time into data, and if necessary
injecting a fake Now() function to return a canned time of day.
Flakiness can also sometimes arise from ordering issues. Some
data structures in Go are inherently unordered: maps, for
example. Comparing these needs special care.
For example, iterating over a map comparing its elements is not
good enough: the iteration order of maps is unspecified in Go.
Instead, we can use the go-cmp package. Its cmp.Equal
function compares maps regardless of iteration order:
func TestCompareMaps(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    want := map[int]bool{1: true, 2: false}


    got := map[int]bool{2: false, 1: true}
    if !cmp.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
// pass
(Listing order/1)
On the other hand, slices are inherently ordered, and
cmp.Equal respects this:
func TestCompareSlices(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    want := []int{1, 2, 3}
    got := []int{3, 2, 1}
    if !cmp.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
// fail:
// -    1, 2, 3,
// +    3, 2, 1,
(Listing order/1)
But sometimes we don’t actually care about the order. Maybe we
get these results from some concurrent computations, and we
don’t know what order they will show up in. We just want to
know that we have the right results.


To compare two slices for equal elements, then, regardless of
order, we can use an option to cmp.Equal to sort them by some
user-defined function:
func TestCompareSortedSlices(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    want := []int{1, 2, 3}
    got := []int{3, 2, 1}
    sort := cmpopts.SortSlices(func(a, b int) bool {
        return a < b
    })
    if !cmp.Equal(want, got, sort) {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got, sort))
    }
}
// pass
(Listing order/1)
Whatever the cause of a flaky test suite, it’s a serious problem.
Left untreated, it will continuously erode value from the tests,
until eventually they become useless and ignored by all. It should
be a red flag to hear something like:
“Oh yeah, that test just fails sometimes.”
As soon as you hear that, you know that the test has become
useless. Delete it, if the flakiness really can’t be fixed. Thou shalt
not suffer a flaky test to live. As soon as it starts flaking, it stops


being a useful source of feedback, and bad tests are worse than
no tests.
A brittle test is not the same thing as a flaky test: a brittle test
fails when you change something unrelated, whereas a flaky test
fails when it feels like it. Fixing brittle tests is usually a matter of
decoupling entangled components, or simply reducing the scope
(and thus sharpening the focus) of the test.
On the other hand, flaky tests can require some time and effort
to find the underlying cause and address it. Only do this if the
test is really worth it; if not, just delete it.
Shared worlds
Another possible underlying cause of flaky tests is a shared world:
some test environment that’s slow or expensive to set up, so to
save time it’s shared between many tests.
The trouble with a shared world is that any given test can’t know
much about the state of that world. Other tests may have already
run and changed the world; other tests may change it while this
test is running. That’s a recipe for flakiness.
The best way to avoid this is to give each test its own private
world, where it can know the initial state precisely, and do what
it likes without worrying about interference with, or from,
concurrent tests.
Where this isn’t possible, though, and concurrent tests are forced
to share a world, they will need to adopt a “take nothing but
pictures, leave nothing but footprints” approach. In other words,
the test mustn’t rely on any particular initial state, it mustn’t
change anything that could affect other tests, and it should leave
the world in the same state as it found it.
When tests have to share a world, they should ideally work just
in their own little corner of it, without trespassing on other tests’
territory.
For example, if the tests have to share a database server, then try


to have them each create their own individual database to work
in, named after the test. If that’s not possible, then each test
should at least have a database table to itself, to avoid locking
issues and conflicts.
If even that’s not possible, then the test should try to do
everything inside a transaction, and roll it back at the end of the
test. In a database that supports this, each test will “see” the data
as it was at the start of its transaction, regardless of what any
other test is doing in another transaction.
Importantly, the test should never delete anything it didn’t create.
Otherwise, it might delete something it wasn’t supposed to. Also,
don’t write a test runner script or automation step that drops and
recreates the database. It would be disastrous if some bug or
accident one day triggered this on the production database
instead of test.
Most systems have safeguards to prevent tests being accidentally
run against production, but inevitably this will happen anyway
at some point. Instead, design tests so that it would be safe to run
them against live data, even if you don’t plan to.
In other words, it should always be safe for the tests to run
against the production DB, because one day they will.
Failing tests
What if some tests aren’t just flaky, but fail all the time, because
bugs aren’t being fixed? This is a very dangerous situation, and
without prompt action the tests will rapidly become completely
useless.
Why? Because if tests are allowed to fail for a while without
being fixed, people soon stop trusting them, or indeed paying any
attention to them:
“Oh yeah, that test always fails.”
We can never have any failing tests, just as we can never have
any bugs:


Don’t fix bugs later; fix them now.
—Steve Maguire, “Writing Solid Code:
Development Philosophies for Writing Bug-Free
Programs”
As soon as any test starts failing, fixing it should be everyone’s
top priority. No one is allowed to deploy any code change that’s
not about fixing this bug.
Once you let one failing test slip through the net, all the other
tests become worthless:
If you find yourself working on a project with quite
a few broken windows, it’s all too easy to slip into
the mindset of “All the rest of this code is crap, I’ll
just follow suit.”
—David Thomas & Andrew Hunt, “The
Pragmatic Programmer: Your Journey to
Mastery”
This so-called zero defects methodology sounds radical, but it
really isn’t. After all, what’s the alternative?
The very first version of Microsoft Word for
Windows was considered a “death march” project.
Managers were so insistent on keeping to the
schedule that programmers simply rushed through
the coding process, writing extremely bad code,
because bug-fixing was not a part of the formal
schedule.
Indeed, the schedule became merely a checklist of
features waiting to be turned into bugs. In the post-
mortem, this was referred to as “infinite defects
methodology”.
—Joel Spolsky, “The Joel Test: 12 Steps to Better
Code”
Fixing bugs now is cheaper, quicker, and makes more business


sense than fixing them later. The product should be ready to ship
at all times, without bugs.
If you already have a large backlog of bugs, or failing tests, but
the company’s still in business, then maybe those bugs aren’t
really that critical after all. The best way out may be to declare
voluntary bug bankruptcy: just close all old bugs, or delete all
failing tests. Bugs that people do care about will pretty soon be
re-opened.
If necessary, you can declare bug amnesty: remove
all bugs from the bug database and send a notice to
all issuers telling them to resubmit a bug if they’re
still concerned about it. If they remain concerned,
add the bug back into the queue. This will greatly
reduce the backlog.
—Gerald Weinberg, “Perfect Software: And
Other Illusions About Testing”
Slow tests
The world’s greatest test suite does us no good if it takes too long
to run. How long is too long? Well, if we’re running tests every
few minutes, clearly even a few minutes is too long. We simply
won’t run the tests often enough to get the fast feedback we need
from them.
By running the test suite frequently, at least several
times a day, you’re able to detect bugs soon after
they are introduced, so you can just look in the
recent changes, which makes it much easier to find
them.
—Martin Fowler, “Self-Testing Code”
One way or the other, then, we don’t want to be more than about
five minutes away from passing tests. So, again, how long is too
long for a test suite to run?
Kent Beck suggests that ten minutes is a psychologically
significant length of time:


The equivalent of 9.8 m/s² is the ten-minute test
suite. Suites that take longer than ten minutes
inevitably get trimmed, or the application tuned up,
so the suite takes ten minutes again.
—Kent Beck, “Test-Driven Development by
Example”
We may perhaps call this psychological limit the Beck time.
Beyond the ten-minute mark, the problem is so obvious to
everybody that people are willing to put effort into speeding up
the test suite. Below that time, people will probably grumble but
put up with it.
That certainly doesn’t mean that a ten-minute test suite is okay:
it’s not, for the reasons we’ve discussed. Let’s look at a few
simple ways to reduce the overall run-time of the test suite to
something more manageable.
1. Parallel tests. As we’ve seen throughout this book, an
inability to run certain tests in parallel is usually a design
smell. Refactor so that each test has its own world, touches
no global state, and can thus run in parallel. Adding
parallelism to a suite that doesn’t have it should speed it
up by about an order of magnitude.
2. Eliminate unnecessary I/O. Once you go off the chip, things
get slow. Do everything on the chip as far as possible,
avoiding I/O operations such as network calls or accessing
disk files. For example, we discussed using an
fstest.MapFS as an in-memory filesystem in the chapter
on “Users shouldn’t do that”, and using memory-backed
io.Readers and io.Writers instead of real files.
3. No remote network calls. Instead of calling some remote
API, call a local fake instead. Local networking happens
right in the kernel, and while it’s still not fast, it’s a lot
faster than actually going out onto the wire.
4. Share fixtures between tests. Any time you have some
expensive fixture setup to do, such as loading data into a


database, try to share its cost between as many tests as
possible, so that they can all use it. If necessary, do the
setup in a single test and then run a bunch of subtests
against it.
However, we need to be careful that the tests don’t then
become flaky as a result of too much fixture sharing. A
flaky test is worse than a slow test.
5. No fixed sleeps. As we saw in the chapter on testing the
untestable, a test that can’t proceed until some concurrent
operation has completed should use the “wait for success”
pattern. This minimises wasted time, whereas a fixed sleep
maximises it (or causes flaky tests, which is also bad).
6. Throw hardware at the problem. When you’ve made the test
suite as fast as it can go and it’s still slow, just run it on a
faster computer. If the tests are mostly CPU-bound, rent a
256-core cloud machine and have it pull and run the tests
on demand. CPU time costs a lot less than programmer
time, especially given that hiring cheap programmers costs
more money than it saves.
7. Run slow tests nightly. This is a last resort, but it might
come to that. If you have a few tests that simply can’t be
speeded up any more, and they’re dragging down the rest
of the suite, extract them to a separate “slow test” suite,
and run it on a schedule. Every night, perhaps; certainly no
less frequently than that. Even nightly isn’t great, but it’s
better than not running tests at all.
A fragrant future
Since you’ve made it to the end of this book (thanks for your
patience), you now have everything you need to detect and
eliminate evil design vapours, dispel unpleasant test suite odours,
and build software that’s fragrant and delightful—guided, of
course, by tests.
I hope you’ve found a few useful things in the book that will
change the way you write software for the better. I also hope it


won’t get you fired, unless it’s for the right reasons.
Let’s leave the last word in this book to the man whose work
inspired it, and me, along with many others:
If you know what to type, then type. If you don’t
know what to type, then take a shower, and stay in
the shower until you know what to type. Many
teams would be happier, more productive, and smell
a whole lot better if they took this advice.
—Kent Beck, “Test-Driven Development by
Example”
