10. Dependence day
The art of programming is the art of organizing
complexity.
—Edsger W. Dijkstra, “Notes on Structured
Programming”
In the previous two chapters we looked at some things that can
make programs hard to test: unexported functions, user
interaction, command-line interfaces, and so on. But probably
the biggest challenge for test writers, especially when dealing
with legacy systems, is code that has dependencies.
What do we mean by this? Simply, a software component that
can’t do its work in isolation. It needs something else in order to
function properly: it depends on it. The dependency in question
may be another software component, or it may be some external
service or resource, such as a database or even the user’s
terminal.


This can be a problem for us when trying to test the component,
because we need to satisfy all its dependencies just in order to
use it in the first place, and that can be hard to do. Some
dependencies are perfectly reasonable, and we just have to do
our best to construct them and supply them in a test. For
example, we might supply a buffer for a function to print to.
On the other hand, too many dependencies can be a design smell.
If each component is designed to work together with a whole
bunch of other components, and they all depend closely on one
another, that makes the system difficult to understand or modify,
as well as to test. We might even call this kind of problem toxic
codependency. What can we do about it?
Just don’t write untestable functions
Ideally, we wouldn’t write code with lots of dependencies in the
first place. As we’ve seen in other contexts, there’s a deep
synergy between testability and good design, and building
components test-first is a good way to take advantage of that.
Simply following red-green-refactor doesn’t mean that we’ll
necessarily produce a good design. Nothing can guarantee that.
But it can help steer us away from some aspects of bad design:
awkward APIs, pre-engineering, and over-engineering. And it can
also help us avoid writing untestable functions.
When test-driving our code, it becomes very difficult
to write complex code. First, because we write just
enough code to satisfy the requirements, we
discourage over-engineering and “big design up
front”.
Second, whenever our code becomes a bit too
complex and bloated, it also becomes difficult to
test.
—Sandro Mancuso, “The Software Craftsman”
“Just don’t write untestable functions” is great advice, for sure.
But since we don’t always have the luxury of developing a


system guided by tests, we’ll need some strategies for dealing
with components that have already been written, and have some
tricky dependency problems baked in.
One way to discover such components is through their effect on
the tests. As we saw in an earlier chapter, it sometimes happens
that certain tests become brittle, meaning that they tend to fail
unexpectedly when we make minor changes to parts of the
system.
Brittle tests are bad, but brittleness isn’t always the fault of the
tests. It can be a result of components having too many
dependencies, particularly on other components.
Test brittleness is not just an attribute of how the
tests are written; it’s also related to the design of the
system.
If an object is difficult to decouple from its
environment because it has many dependencies or
its dependencies are hidden, its tests will fail when
distant parts of the system change. It will be hard to
judge the knock-on effects of altering the code.
—Steve Freeman and Nat Pryce, “Growing
Object-Oriented Software, Guided by Tests”
So the first and best way to tackle a testing problem caused by
dependencies is to change the design of the system, if possible, so
that the problem goes away.
For example, we may find that changing code in component A
causes tests for component B to fail, and perhaps vice versa. This
is a sign that A and B are tightly coupled: each depends closely
on the behaviour of the other.
One response to a discovery like this might be to simply
acknowledge the dependency, and merge the two components. In
other words, we recognise that the tests are telling us these two
things shouldn’t be separate components: they should both be
part of the same component. If they can’t be used independently


of each other, they’re not really separate, even if the code
structure makes it look that way.
Reduce the scope of the dependency
Merging two codependent components isn’t always an option.
There may be business reasons why they have to be kept
separate, or perhaps it’s just too big a refactoring to be
practically possible at the moment. Or maybe the dependency is
external to the system anyway, so we couldn’t merge it even if
we wanted to.
In that case, we can try to eliminate the dependency altogether,
or at least reduce its scope. For example, suppose we have some
method whose job is nominally to send an email in certain
circumstances:
account.EmailUserIfAccountIsNearExpiry()
This kind of thing is a pig to test. How do we know it’s behaving
correctly? It sends email, or not, depending on whether the user’s
account is near expiry. That’s an awkward thing to check from a
test.
No doubt we could solve this problem if we really had to. We
could set up a special email address on a dedicated domain, or a
domain we already control, and we could write code to log in to
an IMAP server and see if the email arrives, within some
allowable time period.
That’s a lot of machinery, and it’s all very fragile and unreliable,
and peppered with irrelevant points of failure (what if DNS isn’t
available? What if some intermediate mail relay decides to
spamblock our emails?). We don’t want to solve a problem like
this: we want to eliminate it instead.
After all, what are we really testing here? The important thing
about the method’s behaviour is not that it actually sends email.
It’s that it correctly decides that the user’s account is near expiry.
Sending email is merely a consequence of that decision.


Once we’ve had this insight, it opens up a way for us to break
this dependency, and split the behaviour into two separate
components:
if account.IsNearExpiry() {
    account.EmailRenewalReminder()
}
Now we’ve changed a nasty “how do we test if this method sends
email?” problem into a much nicer one: does the method return
true or false given an account with a suitable expiry date?
To test that, we don’t need an email server, or any kind of
external infrastructure. We just need to set up two fake accounts,
one with an imminent expiry date and one without, and check
that the IsNearExpiry method returns true and false
respectively.
We’ll still need to test the actual email sending at some point.
But it’s actually easier to do that now that we’ve broken the
coupling between the account expiry logic and the email sending
code. Each of those components is easier to test independently,
and since they are now independent, they should be separate
components.
So we don’t necessarily have to accept existing dependencies at
face value. It’s worth investigating a little and asking if the
behaviours really are coupled for some important reason, or if
the coupling is just a side-effect of poor design.
When we can improve both the testability and the design of the
system by decoupling components, it absolutely makes sense to
do that.
Be suspicious of dependency injection
A particularly bad way for a component to use dependencies is
implicitly. For example, suppose we encounter some function like
this:


CreateUserInDB(user)
We can infer that its job is to take some kind of user object or
user ID, and create a record for the corresponding user in some
database. But what’s alarming about a function like this is that it
doesn’t take the database.
So how does it know which database to talk to? Presumably, that
information must either be hard-wired into the function, or it
must use some kind of global variable or global state to find out.
Both of those alternatives are horrible, and what’s worse is that
they make it very difficult to test this function directly.
The problem is that the function has an implicit dependency on the
database, whatever form that takes. It could be some global
*sql.DB object floating around, initialised by some other part of
the system, or it could be buried inside multiple levels of config
structs. Or maybe the function itself creates a connection to a
database server at some preset address.
Implicit dependencies like this are characteristic of code written
without the guidance of tests. Because there’s probably only one
real database in production, the system just talks directly to it. It
wasn’t necessary for the author to provide a way to pass in
alternate database connections, so they didn’t.
One not very good solution to this problem is called dependency
injection, which sounds complicated, but it just means “passing in
dependencies as arguments”. For example, we could refactor the
function to take an explicit database connection as a parameter:
CreateUserInDB(user, db)
This is okay, and it is an improvement, but it’s really also just
moving the furniture around, in a sense. We’ve made it possible
to call this function from a test and pass it some db object that
we construct for test purposes—but now we have to construct it!
Again, we could probably set up some kind of dedicated test
database, or arrange to run a DB server locally for testing, and so
on. We just don’t want to.


And it’s not really necessary, because the important thing about
CreateUserInDB is not that it actually creates the user in a
database. What’s important is that, under the right
circumstances, it would cause the user to be created.
That seems like a slightly finer distinction than in the “send
email” example, but it’s basically the same idea. Think about
what could cause our test to fail. There are all sorts of irrelevant
reasons that a user might not end up being created in the
database, apart from a faulty CreateUser function.
The database server might not be running, or we might not be
able to connect to it, or we might have the wrong credentials, or
the wrong permissions, or the schema might be missing. Or there
might be a bug in the database server itself (this has been
known).
If it relies on making specific changes to a real database, our test
will be brittle, meaning that it tests more than it should. Its job is
only to test the code in CreateUserInDB, but it’s also
inadvertently testing our test environment, our network
connection, and someone else’s database product. Injecting the
dependency doesn’t fix that problem, because it’s the dependency
that’s the problem.
Indeed, we should be a little suspicious of the very idea of
dependency injection. Its purpose is to make it easier to write
components that need lots of dependencies. But we don’t want to
make it easier to do that, because it’s just a bad idea.
Avoid test-induced damage
Dependency injection can be habit-forming, and this can result in
awkward API design choices. For example, suppose we’re writing
some function whose job is to make requests to some external
service: weather information, perhaps.
Let’s say it takes the user’s location, queries some public weather
API, and returns a brief forecast:
fc, err := weather.GetForecast(location)


Again, we wouldn’t want to have to test this function. It has an
implicit dependency on the real API, and that would make a test
slow and flaky, because networks are slow and flaky. The API
itself might occasionally be down or unresponsive, or just slow.
It might cost us money to make real API calls, or cause the
operators to complain about nuisance traffic generated by our
tests.
The real issue here, though, as before, is that we don’t want to test
their API. It’s not our code. If there is something wrong with it,
we can’t fix it in any case.
What we want to test is not only how our code behaves when
their code is working, but also what happens when it isn’t. And
that’s tricky: we can hardly ask them to take their API down so
that we can test how our code reacts.
What can we do about this? Well, our first idea might be to inject
the API’s URL as an explicit dependency:
fc, err := weather.GetForecast(location, apiURL)
Now we can control what URL the function actually calls, so we
could inject a fake version of the dependency. We could run a
little local API server of our own, and pass in its URL from the
test. A very simple one would do: it could just ignore the details
of any request and always return hard-coded data.
But the price for this minor improvement is a little too high: we
doubled the surface area of our own API, by requiring users to
pass two parameters to GetForecast instead of one. That’s
100% more paperwork.
Worse, the second parameter is only there for testing purposes,
but real users will have to pass it too, because there are no
optional arguments in Go. They’ll always have to pass the same
value: the URL of the real API.
fc, err := weather.GetForecast(location,
    "https://weather.example.com")


That’s objectively worse, and many people would rightly regard
such a change as test-induced damage. We don’t want to smell up
our API just to be able to inject the dependency for test purposes.
Again, we’d prefer to eliminate the dependency if we can, or at
least isolate the part of the system that depends on it, so we can
test the other parts more easily.
A test artefact that’s intended to replace or simulate some system
dependency, such as our simple local weather server, is known as
a fake. As we’ll see later in this chapter, there are many ways of
faking dependencies. Let’s first ask, though, if there’s a way we
can avoid having to use a fake in the first place.
“Chunk” behaviour into subcomponents
In the “send email” and “create user” examples, we didn’t
manage to eliminate the dependency altogether, but we did
reduce its scope as much as possible. We refactored the code to
extract any part of it that doesn’t really need the dependency, and
tested it in isolation. As a result, the tests were easier to write,
and less brittle, and we made the system easier to understand.
What we’ve really been doing here is breaking down something
that looks like a single behaviour into smaller chunks of
behaviour, which it turns out we can test independently.
How would this idea work with our weather example? It seems
like GetForecast just calls the weather API, and that’s it. What
would the independent chunks be? Well, let’s think about how
we’d implement such a function. We might break it down into
multiple steps like this:
1. Construct a suitable URL or HTTP request containing the
user’s location.
2. Send that request to the API.
3. Parse the API’s response and format the data for delivery
to the user.
Now we start to see some light, because we could imagine
decoupling steps 1, 2, and 3. They are, in principle, independent


behaviours, even though they’d usually be implemented together
in a single function.
Let’s start with step 1, constructing the request URL. How could
we test this in isolation? We could use the “magic package”
approach, which you may recall from previous chapters.
In other words, let’s imagine we magically summon up some
function: call it FormatURL, for instance. It takes the user’s
location and turns it into the URL we need to call.
We could test that function directly, without needing to make
any network calls, by passing it a known input and comparing
the result against what we expect. It’s just a matter of string
matching, which is something we’re now pretty comfortable
with.
Here’s what that might look like:
func TestFormatURL_IncludesLocation(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    location := "Nowhere"
    want := "https://weather.example.com/?q=Nowhere"
    got := weather.FormatURL(location)
    if want != got {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing weather/1)
Indeed, we could write a whole table test just about this,
supplying different locations, very long strings, accented


characters, and so on. If there’s a bug in our URL formatting
logic, it’s actually better to have a test that targets that specific
code.
What about step 3, parsing the API’s response? Again, let’s wave
our wands (Accio functionem!) and magic something up. Let’s call
it ParseResponse, and write a test for it:
func TestParseResponse(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    data := []byte(`{"weather":[{"main":"Clouds"}]}`)
    want := weather.Forecast{
        Summary: "Clouds",
    }
    got, err := weather.ParseResponse(data)
    if err != nil {
        t.Fatal(err)
    }
    if !cmp.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing weather/1)
Again, this is straightforward, because the business of parsing the
response data (we’ll assume it’s in JSON format) is in principle


independent from actually making the API call.
All we need to do is construct a blob of JSON data that looks like
what the API returns, and pass it to ParseResponse for
processing. In fact, we could capture some data returned by the
real API, and put it directly into our test.
With these two simple steps, we haven’t entirely eliminated the
dependency on the external API, but we have decoupled almost
all of the important behaviour of our system from it, and tested it
with some simple, isolated tests. It shouldn’t be too hard to go
ahead and write FormatURL and ParseResponse now, guided
by these tests.
Reassemble the tested chunks
We can now rewrite GetForecast to use our two new, and
independently-tested, “chunk” functions:
func GetForecast(location string) (Forecast, error) {
    URL := FormatURL(location)
    ... // make API request
    return ParseResponse(resp.Body)
}
The (omitted) code to make the API request and get the response
is essentially standard practice, and just consists of calling
http.Get, checking the response status, and so on. There isn’t
much to get wrong here, and we can probably test it adequately
by running the program manually. After all, a working program
is the real goal here, not just a bunch of tests.
The goal is not to write tests. The goal is to write
correct software, and it’s up to us to decide how
much support we need to know that we’re doing the
right thing.


—Michael Feathers, “Testing Patience”
The really critical behaviours of the system, though—that is, the
bits we’re most likely to get wrong—are constructing the URL
and parsing the response data. And we can test those as
thoroughly as we need to, without the disadvantages of slow,
flaky, or brittle tests.
By the way, a similar example of testing an API client is explored
in much more detail in my companion book The Power of Go:
Tools, and in a blog post titled An API client in Go, which you
might find useful if you’re working on a similar program.
In general, then, a good way to test behaviour which can’t easily
be decoupled from its dependencies is to chunk it: break it down
into smaller, individually testable functions, most of which don’t
need the dependency, and each of which we can test in isolation
from the others.
Then all we need to ensure is that we connect these chunks back
together in the right way in the real program, which usually isn’t
too hard to test.
Extract and isolate the key logic
Sometimes a fairly simple behaviour is nevertheless wired tightly
into a component with a complex API, making it awkward to
test. For example, I recently consulted on a project involving a
Go API server with dozens of complicated endpoints, each
requiring a lot of fiddly paperwork to call.
Worse, it was very difficult to isolate the endpoint handlers
themselves for testing, since they had lots of complex side effects
on the world, including calling other services.
But the behaviour we actually wanted to test was very simple:
that the system invokes the appropriate handler for the given
type of request. The routing logic looked something like this:


switch requestType(req) {
case TypeA:
    HandleTypeA(req)
case TypeB:
    HandleTypeB(req)
case TypeC:
    HandleTypeC(req)
}
The most natural way to test something like this would be to spin
up a local instance of the server and make requests of various
types to it, checking that the appropriate handler gets invoked.
But, as I say, this was far from straightforward in practice.
First, just to create a valid request in the first place required
many screenfuls of code, different for each type of request.
Second, the handlers had lots of unwanted side effects that
would be difficult to suppress using fakes. Third, since the actual
response was more or less the same for all requests, it was quite
hard to tell in a test which handler had actually been called.
After some head-scratching, we decided to ask ourselves the
ever-useful question “What are we really testing here?” The
answer was “We’re testing that requests are passed to the correct
handler for their type.”
When you frame the behaviour in these terms, it’s suddenly a lot
easier to figure out how to test it. Suppose, instead of using a
switch statement to dispatch requests, the router used a map:
handler := map[RequestType]Handler{


    TypeA: HandleTypeA,
    TypeB: HandleTypeB,
    TypeC: HandleTypeC,
}
Now all the dispatching code needs to do is look up the right
handler in the map for the request type, and call it:
handle := handler[requestType(req)]
handle(req)
We don’t need to test map lookups or function calls; as long as
the map data is correct, the dispatching will work. So now all we
need to test is the map data. The end-to-end behaviour of the API
router is very difficult to test, but the routing logic is very easy to
test, provided we extract it and isolate it in the right way.
Isolate by using an adapter
No program is an island, and we often have to communicate with
other programs in order to get our work done. For example, we
might use some external database such as PostgreSQL, an
internet API such as the weather service, or some executable
binary that we run using the os/exec package.
Any external dependency of this kind presents both a design
problem and a testing problem. Sometimes we can solve both
problems at once, by using the adapter pattern.
An adapter is a way of grouping together all the code in our
system that deals with a particular dependency. For example, the
GetForecast function that we explored in the previous section
is a kind of adapter. In this case, it’s an adapter that lets us talk
to a specific weather service API.
Adapters are also sometimes called ambassadors: their job is to
“represent” us to the external system, and vice versa. They
deliver vital messages to the foreign embassy, translating them
into the appropriate “language” so that they’ll be understood. In
turn, they translate and bring back to us the response in a


language we can understand.
In the weather example, the “outbound” part of the adapter is
the FormatURL function. It translates the query that we want to
make into the weather API’s own language: that is, a URL
containing the user’s location. We then deliver this message in the
GetForecast function, using http.Get.
The “inbound” part of the adapter, ParseResponse, is
responsible for handling the API’s response in some arbitrary
JSON format, let’s say. It translates the raw response into the
native Forecast struct type that we use internally to represent
weather data.
The net effect of this adapter is to decouple all knowledge about
the specific weather API from the rest of the system. We can treat
it as an obliging ambassador that will ask questions of some
foreign power on our behalf, and bring us back the results in a
conveniently-shaped diplomatic bag.
Encapsulating all dependency-specific knowledge in a single
component, then, solves both our design problem and our
testability problem. It means that we don’t need to call the
remote API in our tests, and in turn the status of our tests doesn’t
depend on whether some external service is available.
Example: a database adapter
Let’s see how the adapter pattern might work with a dependency
like some SQL database, for example. Suppose we need to store
product information for Acme Widgets, Inc, and we’d like to
access it using the classic CRUD methods: Create, Read, Update,
and Delete.
So let’s say we define some Widget struct:
type Widget struct {
    ID   string


    Name string
}
(Listing widget/1)
Our first attempt at a constructor for Widget might look
something like this, with the gory details omitted:
func Create(db *sql.DB, w Widget) (ID string, err error
    // SQL: create widgets table if it doesn't exist
    // SQL: insert into widgets table
    // handle possible error
    return w.ID, nil
}
We take some *sql.DB object representing a database handle,
instantiated using some specific driver (for example, Postgres).
We’ll use that to execute the necessary SQL queries (omitted
here) to add the specified new widget to the database.
This is fine, of course, and most Go applications that use
databases look something like this. But it’s a little awkward, in a
couple of important ways. First, knowledge about the specific
database server (for example, Postgres) is embedded in a
function that should really only contain business logic. That is,
code that implements rules about widgets for our specific
customer or problem domain.
We don’t want this key business logic all tangled up with the
code to construct SQL queries for a specific database server.
That’s just bad design, because it violates the Single Responsibility
Principle, that any given function should do more or less one
thing. We’d have to copy and paste the same logic to any other
function that stores widgets in a different way.
The more serious problem is that now it’s impossible to test our


widget logic without having an external database available, and
making real queries against it. Even if this is only some local test
server, it’s still annoying. We can’t just run go test: we have to
use a Makefile or Docker Compose file or something to start the
Postgres server first.
Actually, it is possible to start external services automatically in a
Go test, either by running commands via os/exec, or by
starting containers using a package such as testcontainers.
That’s a valid approach, but a bit heavyweight: it’s sumo, not
judo.
The adapter pattern gives us a more elegant way to design this
problem out of existence. How would that work? Well, the
underlying issue is that the widget logic is uncomfortably tightly
coupled with the “storing things in Postgres” code. Let’s start by
breaking that dependency.
It’s presumably not crucial to widgets that they be stored in
Postgres, specifically. So let’s invent some completely abstract
widget store, described by an interface:
type Store interface {
    Store(Widget) (string, error)
}
(Listing widget/1)
We can implement this interface using any storage technology
we choose. All we need to do is provide a suitable Store
method, and make it work.
Now we can change Create to take an abstract Store, instead
of something specific like a *sql.DB:


func Create(s Store, w Widget) (ID string, err error) {
    ID, err = s.Store(w)
    if err != nil {
        return "", err
    }
    return ID, nil
}
(Listing widget/1)
In a real application, Create would probably do some widget-
related business logic (validation, for example), which we can
imagine wanting to test in isolation.
To do that, we still need something that implements Store, for
test purposes. But this can be as trivial as we like. In fact, we
could use a Go map. The data won’t be persistent, but that
doesn’t matter; it only needs to persist for the duration of the
test.
type mapStore struct {


    m    *sync.Mutex
    data map[string]widget.Widget
}
func newMapStore() *mapStore {
    return &mapStore{
        m:    new(sync.Mutex),
        data: map[string]widget.Widget{},
    }
}
func (ms *mapStore) Store(w widget.Widget) (string, err
    ms.m.Lock()
    defer ms.m.Unlock()
    ms.data[w.ID] = w
    return w.ID, nil
}
(Listing widget/1)
Even though this is only a test fixture, we’d still like it to be
concurrency safe, so that a mapStore could be shared between
parallel tests if necessary. The protective mutex makes this
possible, as we saw with the kvstore example in a previous
chapter.
Great. With that preparatory work out of the way, we can go
ahead and write a test for Create:


func TestCreate_GivesNoErrorForValidWidget(t *testing.T
    s := newMapStore()
    w := widget.Widget{
        ID: "test widget",
    }
    wantID := "test widget"
    gotID, err := widget.Create(s, w)
    if err != nil {
        t.Errorf("unexpected error: %v", err)
    }
    if wantID != gotID {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(wantID, gotID))
    }
}
(Listing widget/1)
We can run this test without any awkward external dependencies,
such as a Postgres server. That makes our test suite faster and
easier to run, and by decoupling the widget logic from the
storage logic, we’ve also improved the overall architecture of our
package.
Every time you encounter a testability problem,
there is an underlying design problem. If your code
is not testable, then it is not a good design.
—Michael Feathers, “The Deep Synergy between
Testability and Good Design”
In the real program, though, we’ll probably want to store widget
data in something like Postgres. So we’ll also need an
implementation of Store that uses Postgres as the underlying
storage technology.
Suppose we write something like this, for example:


type PostgresStore struct {
    db *sql.DB
}
func (p *PostgresStore) Store(w Widget) (ID string, err
    // horrible SQL goes here
    // handle errors, etc
    return ID, nil
}
(Listing widget/1)
This is an equally valid implementation of the Store interface,
because it provides a Store method. The only major difference
from mapStore is that there are about 1.3 million lines of code
behind it, because it talks to Postgres. Thank goodness we don’t
have to test all that code just to know that Create works!
However, we do also need to know that our PostgresStore
works. How can we test it? We could point it to a real Postgres
server, but that just puts us right back where we started. Could
we use chunking to avoid this?
Recall that in the weather example, we split up the adapter’s
behaviour into inbound and outbound chunks. “Outbound”, in
the PostgresStore case, would mean that, given a widget, the
adapter generates the correct SQL query to insert it into the
database. That’s fairly easy to test, because it’s just string
matching.
What about the “inbound” side? Well, there’s no inbound side in
our example, because it’s deliberately oversimplified, but we can
imagine that in a real application we’d also need to retrieve
widgets from the Store, and so we’d need to add a Retrieve
method to the interface. Let’s briefly talk about what that would
involve, and how to test it.
In the Postgres case, implementing Retrieve would mean doing


a SQL query to get the required data, and then translating the
resulting sql.Row object, if any, to our Widget type.
This is awkward to test using a real database, as we’ve seen, but
it’s also pretty difficult to fake a sql.DB. Fortunately, we don’t
have to, because the sqlmock package does exactly this useful
job.
We can use sqlmock to construct a very lightweight DB that
does nothing but respond to any query with a fixed response.
After all, we don’t need to test that Postgres works; let’s hope it
does. All we need to test on our side is that if we get a row object
containing some specified data, we can correctly translate it into
a Widget.
Let’s write a helper function to construct a PostgresStore
using this fake DB:
import "github.com/DATA-DOG/go-sqlmock"
func fakePostgresStore(t *testing.T) widget.PostgresSto
    db, mock, err := sqlmock.New()
    if err != nil {
        t.Fatal(err)


    }
    t.Cleanup(func() {
        db.Close()
    })
    query := "SELECT id, name FROM widgets"
    rows := sqlmock.NewRows([]string{"id", "name"}).
        AddRow("widget01", "Acme Giant Rubber Band")
    mock.ExpectQuery(query).WillReturnRows(rows)
    return widget.PostgresStore{
        DB: db,
    }
}
(Listing widget/1)
Now we can use this fake PostgresStore in a test. We’ll call
its Retrieve method and check that we get back the Widget
described by our canned test data:
func TestPostgresStore_Retrieve(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    ps := fakePostgresStore(t)
    want := widget.Widget{
        ID:   "widget01",
        Name: "Acme Giant Rubber Band",
    }


    got, err := ps.Retrieve("widget01")
    if err != nil {
        t.Fatal(err)
    }
    if !cmp.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing widget/1)
Very neat! Finally, let’s write the Retrieve method and check
that it passes our test.
func (ps *PostgresStore) Retrieve(ID string) (Widget, e
    w := Widget{}
    ctx := context.Background()
    row := ps.DB.QueryRowContext(ctx,
        "SELECT id, name FROM widgets WHERE id = ?", ID
    err := row.Scan(&w.ID, &w.Name)
    if err != nil {
        return Widget{}, err
    }
    return w, nil
}
(Listing widget/1)
And we still didn’t need a real Postgres server, or any other
external dependencies. Of course, our confidence in the


correctness of the code only goes as far as our confidence that
our SQL query is right, and it might not be.
Similarly, the canned row data returned by our fake might not
match that returned by a real server. So at some point we’ll need
to test the program against a real server. The work we’ve done
here, though, has greatly reduced the scope of our dependency
on that server. We might only need it for one or two tests, run
occasionally as a backstop (before a deployment, for example).
Fakes, mocks, stubs, doubles, and spies
The fake database in the PostgresStore example is an
example of what’s sometimes called a test fake, or test double.
You’ll find lots of colourful and mysterious terminology on this
subject, but I’m not sure how helpful all these different words
are. I tend to lump them all under the general heading of “fakes”,
and leave it at that.
By “fake” I mean any value that we construct in a test, purely for
the purposes of testing, that in the real program would usually
represent some external dependency, or maybe just some
expensive operation that we want to avoid in tests.
It’s worth taking a moment to outline the different kinds of
things a fake can do, and how they relate to some of the testing
terms you may come across.
The minimal fake does nothing at all, or perhaps just returns
fixed responses to method calls; this is sometimes known as a
stub. It exists purely to make the program compile, since
something is required syntactically, but doesn’t attempt to
implement the behaviour under test.
What’s wrong with stubs? They’re a design smell. If the
component under test is so tightly coupled to another component
that it can’t work without a stub version of it, then it’s probably
too tightly coupled. Also, if it can work with a stub version that
does nothing, then apparently it isn’t such an important
dependency after all! We can usually change the design to
remove the coupling.


A slightly more useful fake is something like our memory-based
MapStore, which isn’t actually “fake”, even though we call it
that. It’s a real store, just not a persistent one. If the behaviour
under test doesn’t need persistent storage, then it’s faster to test
it using an in-memory version such as MapStore.
It’s often useful in testing to have some kind of fake that can
record how it’s used. For example, in a previous chapter we used
a *bytes.Buffer in a test as a “fake” io.Writer, so that the
test can check what gets written to the buffer. This kind of fake is
sometimes called a spy.
Don’t be tempted to write mocks
We can use the information provided by a spy to fail the test, but
you could also imagine a fake sophisticated enough to fail the
test itself if the system doesn’t call it correctly. This is known as a
mock.
The term “mock” is often loosely used to mean any kind of test
fake, but strictly speaking a mock is a fake that has pre-
programmed expectations about how it’s to be used, and verifies
those expectations when used in a test.
For example, suppose we’re building a BuyWidget function, and
we need some kind of fake payment processing service, so that
we don’t have to make real payments in the test. We could use a
stub for this, but then we wouldn’t know whether or not the
system actually called the service to make a “payment”. That’s an
important part of the behaviour under test, so what could we do?
We could make a spy payment service that simply records the
details of any payments that the system uses it to make, and then
have the test check the spy afterwards. But another option would
be to build a mock payment service, that takes the test’s
*testing.T as a parameter.
The mock’s “make payment” method can be programmed to
expect the exact payment details the system should provide, and
fail the test if they don’t match exactly. It could also fail the test
if the “make payment” method doesn’t get called at all.


Mocks can become very complex and sophisticated in their
behaviour, sometimes almost as complex as the real component
they’re replacing. And that’s a bad thing, at least if we want to
build simple, reliable tests. How do you know that your mock
accurately replicates the behaviour of the real system? If it
doesn’t, you’re testing the wrong thing.
And there’s another problem with mocking in tests. Because a
mock is programmed to expect a specific sequence of calls and
parameters, it’s very tightly coupled to the way the system uses
the real component. It observes the indirect outputs of the system,
not its direct outputs. We’re no longer testing just the user-visible
behaviour of the system, we’re testing its implementation, which
makes our tests brittle.
If we refactored the system, changing its implementation without
changing any of its public behaviour, we wouldn’t want this to
break any tests. But it would almost certainly break any tests that
use mocks in this way. As we’ve seen in previous chapters, if
your tests prove brittle, that usually points to a design problem
that you can fix by decoupling components.
In other words, mocking presupposes your design, rather than
letting the right design gradually emerge from the desired
behaviour of the system. It’s also a lot of work building all that
mock code, and keeping it up to the date with the behaviour of
the real component over the life of the project.
It’s not that mocking is a bad idea in itself; mocks can be useful
sometimes. It’s just that if you find you can’t test your system
adequately without mocks, this is probably a hint that you should
redesign the system instead. And building a mock certainly
shouldn’t be our default approach. We should only resort to it
once all the other options described in this chapter have been
exhausted.
Because of the way Go’s type system works, a mock object almost
always requires an interface, so that we can inject one concrete
type (the mock) where another (the real dependency) would
normally go. Again, interfaces aren’t a bad thing in themselves.
The Store interface is useful, because it lets us choose between


multiple real implementations of it.
Creating an interface purely to permit mocking, though, is test-
induced damage: in fact, it’s interface pollution.
A quick hypocrisy check: didn’t we just use the sqlmock
package earlier in this chapter? Yes. Technically, we used it as a
stub, not a mock, and we didn’t write it, we just imported it. But
you have a point. If Go’s sql.DB type were easier to fake
without creating test-induced damage, we’d certainly want to
avoid things like sqlmock. However, it feels like a lesser evil
than spinning up an external database for tests that don’t really
need one.
What about “mock” struct types like errReader, though? You
may recall from the chapter on testing error behaviour that we
built a little implementation of io.Reader that simply always
returns an error when you try to read it.
This is fine: it isn’t technically a mock, because it doesn’t fail the
test by itself. But it is a kind of fake: specifically, a fake that’s
designed to work incorrectly. We may call it instead, perhaps, a
crock.
Turn time into data
Remember the example of a function with an implicit
dependency on a global database connection? That’s a
particularly awkward kind of dependency, because it’s a
singleton: the system is designed under the assumption that there
will only ever be one database.
A singleton like this is bad design for all sorts of reasons, not
least because it makes it difficult to substitute a fake for testing.
We first had to make the dependency explicit, to create a seam in
the system where a test fake could be injected. That also removes
the singleton problem, because the database now just becomes a
parameter to the part of the system that actually depends on it.
Another implicit singleton dependency that can make programs
hard to test is slightly less obvious: it’s time. Any program that


calls time.Now, or some equivalent, by definition behaves
differently at different times of day. Thus, the results of the tests
will also depend on the time of day they are run (or the day of
the week, day of the month, or even the year).
Consider a test like this, for instance, which is similar to one I
came across in a real project:
func TestOneHourAgo(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    now := time.Now()
    then := past.OneHourAgo()
    if now.Hour() == 0 {
        assert.Equal(t, 23, then.Hour())
        assert.Equal(t, now.Day()-1, then.Day())
    } else {
        assert.Equal(t, now.Hour()-1, then.Hour())
        assert.Equal(t, now.Day(), then.Day())
    }
    assert.Equal(t, now.Month(), then.Month())
    assert.Equal(t, now.Year(), then.Year())
}
(Listing past/1)
Can you see what past.OneHourAgo is meant to do? That’s
right: it returns a time.Time value representing the instant that


is one hour before now. A simple-minded way to test this would
be to check that the result is exactly the same as time.Now,
except that the Hour part is one less.
And that test would pass most of the time, assuming that
OneHourAgo behaves correctly. But if we were to run it during
the hour between midnight and 1am, it would fail, because the
result of OneHourAgo would actually be some time after 11pm
the previous day.
Hence the special case we see in this test, when now.Hour()
== 0. The programmer correctly identified the problem: the test
is flaky because it depends on the actual time of day it’s run.
However, they opted for the wrong solution: patch the test to
have different expectations at different times of day.
So what’s the right solution here? It must be one that eliminates
the flakiness: that is, it makes the result of the test independent
of the time of day. To do that, we have to break the function’s
implicit dependency on the current time.
To look at it another way, our confidence in the correctness of
OneHourAgo will be much reduced if we know that this test
never runs at midnight. It’s fun when games like NetHack behave
differently at midnight: it’s not so fun when our tests do.
On a full moon, [NetHack] players start with a +1
to Luck, meaning that random effects like fountain
drinking tend to be slightly better and the player hits
more often in combat. On Friday the 13th, players
start out with a base Luck of -1, meaning that
prayer never works. Undead creatures do double
damage during the hour of midnight, it’s harder to
tame dogs on full-moon nights, and gremlins
sometimes steal from the player between 10pm and
6am.
—John Harris, “Exploring Roguelike Games”
To avoid attracting the attention of gremlins, what should we
do? One option would be to make the dependency explicit, as


with the database example. In other words, instead of expecting
OneHourAgo to find out the current time itself, we could just tell
it the time:
now := time.Now()
then := past.OneHourAgo(now)
This is a start, and it does make the function more useful, since it
can now calculate the instant an hour before any time, not just
the current time. But it doesn’t make the test less flaky, because
unless we can ensure that the test is regularly run just after
midnight, we still can’t be confident that the function handles
this situation correctly.
But the point of this change, of course, is so that in a test, we can
pass it some specific time. While we’re at it, let’s get rid of these
unwanted asserts. We can now replace them with a direct
comparison, because we know exactly what time to expect:
func TestOneHourAgo(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    testTime, err := time.Parse(time.RFC3339, "2022-08-
    if err != nil {
        t.Fatal(err)
    }


    want, err := time.Parse(time.RFC3339, "2022-08-04T2
    if err != nil {
        t.Fatal(err)
    }
    got := past.OneHourAgo(testTime)
    if !cmp.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing past/2)
This works, and now we can explicitly test midnight handling, as
well as some other times of day. In fact, this is a good candidate
for a table test.
But we’ve created a little bit of test-induced damage as a result of
this change. Now everyone who wants to use this function has to
construct a time.Time value to pass it, even though that will
almost always be simply the result of time.Now().
We also have to refactor all calls to OneHourAgo throughout the
system to take this argument, which is annoying. So turning a
singleton into an explicit parameter is not always the best
answer. What could we do instead?
Well, the real problem here is that the function calls time.Now
to get the current time, and we can’t change the result of that
call from a test. Could we create some kind of a mock clock, inject
this as a dependency to the system as a whole, and use that to
control the behaviour of time-related functions? Or even
intercept and hijack time-related calls using some kind of fake
time library?
Sure. But maybe that isn’t necessary. All we need to fake is a
function, so why don’t we use a function? For example,
supposing there were some global variable past.Now, whose
type is func() time.Time, and whose default value is the
time.Now function itself:


// careful: not 'time.Now()'
var Now = time.Now
(Listing past/3)
Note that we’re not calling time.Now here. We’re assigning that
function itself to a variable, Now.
We can replace all calls to time.Now() throughout the system
with calls to Now(), without changing its behaviour in any way:
func OneHourAgo() time.Time {
    return Now().Add(-time.Hour)
}
(Listing past/3)
But we’ve created a seam where we can inject our own “now”
function:
func TestOneHourAgo(t *testing.T) {
    testTime, err := time.Parse(time.RFC3339, "2022-08-
    if err != nil {


        t.Fatal(err)
    }
    past.Now = func() time.Time {
        return testTime
    }
    want, err := time.Parse(time.RFC3339, "2022-08-04T2
    if err != nil {
        t.Fatal(err)
    }
    got := past.OneHourAgo()
    if !cmp.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Error(cmp.Diff(want, got))
    }
}
(Listing past/3)
A fake func like this is much simpler than a mock object, doesn’t
need a useless single-method interface, and doesn’t create extra
paperwork for users. Indeed, it’s completely transparent to users,
and that’s partly the point.
It’s up to you how you prefer to construct the testTime. A
standard date format such as RFC3339 is ideal, but if you find it
clearer to express the relevant instants using a different layout,
by all means do so:
const layout = "Jan 2, 2006 at 3:04pm (MST)"
testTime, err := time.Parse(layout, "Feb 3, 2013 at 12:
...
One final point to bear in mind is that a test like this can’t be run
in parallel, because we’re modifying a global variable. Imagine a
whole bunch of concurrent tests, each trying to set past.Now to
its own fake func, all at once. Chaos ensues, so we need to make
this test sequential, just like any other test that needs to fake out
a singleton.


The basic trick here is to turn time into data. Instead of having the
system magically (and invisibly) be dependent on some singleton
clock, make time values just another piece of data that the
system accepts as input.
Because Go provides a time.Time data type specifically for
representing instants of time as data, this makes our lives
somewhat easier, but there’s one thing we should be careful to
remember: despite what the birthday cards say, time is not just a
number.
We may have some sense that time is represented internally in
Go as a number (the number of nanoseconds since epoch, which
is just some fixed reference time that everybody agrees on). But
it’s also more complicated than that.
People assume that time is a strict progression of
cause to effect, but actually, from a non-linear, non-
subjective viewpoint, it’s more like a big ball of
wibbly-wobbly… timey-wimey… stuff.
—The Tenth Doctor, “Blink”
In fact, there isn’t just one system clock on your computer. There
are two: a wall clock, which gives the current time, and a
monotonic clock. The point about the wall clock is that it can
stop, change, or even go backwards (during a DST change or leap
second, for example). So for calculations about time, the Go
time.Time type includes the monotonic clock reading too. This,
as the name suggests, goes only in one direction: forwards.
The implication of this is that we mustn’t treat times, either in
tests or in system code, as simple numbers that we can do math
on, or even compare directly with the == operator.
Instead, we should use the API provided by the time package for
safely manipulating times:


func TestOneHourAgo(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    now := time.Now()
    want := now.Add(-time.Hour)
    got := past.OneHourAgo()
    delta := want.Sub(got).Abs()
    if delta > 10*time.Microsecond {
        t.Errorf("want %v, got %v", want, got)
    }
}
(Listing past/4)
We can compare time.Time values safely using their Equal
method, but that wouldn’t work here. The got time won’t be
exactly the same instant as want, even if our math is correct: it
takes a non-zero time to do that computation!
Instead, a better idea is to find the difference between the two
times, using the Sub method to produce a time.Duration, and
then checking that the difference is small enough to satisfy our
requirements.
By the way, it’s now abundantly clear from this test that we don’t
even need to write a OneHourAgo function at all. The best kind
of test, indeed, is one that shows us we don’t need the function…
or the test.
In the next and final chapter, we’ll turn our attention from the
particular to the general: what makes a test suite and its
associated codebase good? Or, more interestingly, bad? Let’s find
out.
