Chapter 1
About Go Optimizations 101
This book provides some code performance optimization tricks, tips, and suggestions. Most of the
contents in this book are made based on the official standard Go compiler and runtime implemen-
tation.
Life is full of trade-offs, the programming world is, too. In programming, we often need to make
trade-offs between code readability, maintainability, development efficiency, and program effi-
ciency, etc. Even for one of the aspects, there are also trade-offs needing to be made. Taking
program efficiency for an example, we might need to make trade-offs between memory saving,
code execution speed, and implementation difficulty, etc.
In practice, most parts of the code base of a project don’t need to be implemented with high per-
formances. Keeping them maintainable and readable is often more important (than making them
memory saving and run very fast). The suggestions made in this book are just for the code parts
which implementations really need to be high performant. Some of the suggestions often lead to
more verbose code. And please note that some of the suggested implementations might be only
performant at some certain scenarios.
The contents in this book include:
• how to consume less CPU resources.
• how to consume less memory.
• how to make less memory allocations.
• how to control memory allocation places.
• how to reduce garbage collection pressure.
This book neither explains how to use performance analysis tools, such as pprof, nor tries to study
deeply on compiler and runtime implementation details. None of the contents provided in this
book make use of unsafe pointers and cgo. And the book doesn’t talk about algorithms. In other
words, this book tries to provide some optimization suggestions in a way which is clear and easy
to understand, for daily general Go programming.
Without particularly indicated, the code examples provided in this book are tested and run on a
notebook with the following environment setup:
go version go1.19 linux/amd64
goos: linux
goarch: amd64
cpu: Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-4210U CPU @ 1.70GHz
7
