p/#Request.
Additionally, and optionally, the request can contain the following data and
metadata if applicable within the structure of the HTTP message:
Request header fields (RFC-7230 3.2): Request header fields, known as
just headers, are key/value pairs of metadata associated with either of the
HTTP message types, request or response. This metadata is used to further
describe attributes of the request, such as the length of the content body, or
authentication credentials. The key/value pairs are separated by a :
character, and are enumerated directly after the start-line of the message,
one line per pair. There is a helpful list of registered headers that are
commonly in use, which can provide guidance on request and response
metadata. These registered headers are defined here: http://www.iana.org/assig
nments/message-headers. Within the http.Request type, there is a Header attribute
which is a key to value mapping.
Message body (RFC-7230 3.3): The message body is the payload of the
request or response in the HTTP message protocol. The client and server
are signaled the fact that the message body is present by the existence of the
Content-Length or Transfer-Encoding headers. The Go web server implementation
takes care of these headers automatically when a response is written to the
response writer. The message body on a request is accessible from the Body
attribute on the Request type in the net/http package. Of particular note here
is that the Body is an implementation of the io.ReadCloser interface, which
contains two methods: Read and Close.
The following is a more complete HTTP request message:
POST /file.txt HTTP/1.1
        Host: localhost
        Accept: */*
        Content-Length: 8
        Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
        hi=there
In the preceding example, the request dictates that we want to use the POST
method on the `/file.txt` target resource. Our request headers specify that we are
attempting to contact a particular host which is localhost, and are willing to
accept any type of response content. Since we have a request body that is URL
encoded, we need a Content-Type header specifying the content type as well as the
length of the request body in bytes. Finally, our request body, hi=there, is
