125
TECHNIQUE 25
Logging to the syslog
 When you map a Go logger’s front end to a syslog back end, you need to make
some simplifications. Syslog’s rich notion of facilities and priorities isn’t adequately
represented in Go’s logger, so you have to specifically tell the Go logger how to set
facility and severity. And unfortunately, you get to do this only once, at creation time.
In this example, you tell Go where to log the messages (the LOG_LOCAL3 facility), and
how important the log message is. Because you can set this only once, you set it to
LOG_NOTICE, which is important enough to get it logged by default, but not important
enough to trigger any alarms.
 UNIX-like sysloggers (including those in Linux and OS X) rely on configuration
files to indicate where the logs will be written. On a Mac, for example, the preceding
messages are written to /var/log/system.log, whereas some flavors of Linux write it to
/var/log/messages.
 When you first create the Go logger, not only do you have to set the priority (the
combination of facility and severity), but you also pass it the formatting flags that
other instances of the Go logger use. For simplicity, you’ve used the same flags used in
previous examples.
 Now, any messages you send to the logger—regardless of their severity—will be
written to the log file as notices.
 Using Go’s logger is convenient, but setting the severity correctly and using more
of syslog’s capabilities would be more useful. You can do that by using the log/syslog
logging functions directly, as shown in the next listing.
package main
import (
     "log/syslog"
)
func main() {
     logger, err := syslog.New(syslog.LOG_LOCAL3, "narwhal")
     if err != nil {
            panic("Cannot attach to syslog")
     }
     defer logger.Close()
     logger.Debug("Debug message.")
     logger.Notice("Notice message.")
     logger.Warning("Warning message.")
     logger.Alert("Alert message.")
}
This code sets up a system logger and then sends it messages with a variety of severity
levels. Setting up the logger is straightforward. Logging locally requires you to provide
two pieces of information: the facility that you want to log to (LOG_LOCAL3) and the
prefix you want every message to begin with (narwhal). Normally, the prefix is the
name of the service or application that’s running.
Listing 5.6
Logging to the system log
Creates a new 
syslog client
Sends the logger a 
variety of messages
