123
TECHNIQUE 25
Logging to the syslog
5.2.2
Working with system loggers
In the previous sections, we took it upon ourselves to write a logging system. In many
cases, though, existing system loggers may be adequate for the task at hand. In this
section, you’ll look at system loggers.
NOTE
Powerful third-party logging packages are available for Go. Logrus
(https://github.com/Sirupsen/logrus) and Glog (https://github.com/golang/
glog) are two popular examples. 
The ideas behind logging have solidified over the decades, and one idea that’s now
firmly entrenched in our code is the concept of assigning a log level to a message. The
level indicates the importance of the information in the log message and at the same
time often indicates the kind of message being logged. Typical log levels include
Trace, Debug, Info, Warn, Error, and Critical, though you’ll sometimes see others
including Notice, Alert, and Emergency.
 Although applications may deviate from the norm, the following list represents
common types of log messages that applications write, together with the typical name
or names of the log level:
Informational message—These tend to include information on the application’s
current status, when it started, and when it stopped. Metrics are usually logged
as informational messages too. The Info log level is designated for this kind of
message. 
Problems—When an application encounters an error, the error message (and
supporting information) is sent to a log. Typically, log levels are Warn, Error,
and Critical, depending on severity.
Debugging information—As developers write code, it’s often convenient to send
debugging information into the log. This information is targeted specifically to
the programmers (not usually the operators or sys admins). It’s assigned to the
Debug log level.
Stack dumps or deep info—Sometimes you need to get at extremely detailed infor-
mation about a program. For a particularly complex portion of code, you may
want to dump a stack trace or information about the goroutine. The Trace level
is used for this.
Many systems, including all modern UNIX-like systems, support these log levels in the
system logger. Go itself also provides a system logging library. We’ll look at that now.
TECHNIQUE 25
Logging to the syslog
Logging is a well understood problem, and over the decades, standard facilities have
emerged for system-wide logging. Unsurprisingly, Go includes out-of-the-box support
for such facilities.
 Syslogs provide some major advantages to creating your own. First, they’re mature
and stable products that are optimized for dealing with latency, redundant messages,
and archiving. Most contemporary system loggers handle periodic log rotation,
