129
Testing
5.4
Testing
Testing and debugging are exercises
that require learning the details
about a program. But whereas debug-
ging is reactive, testing is proactive.
This section covers a few strategies for
making the most of Go’s testing tools.
5.4.1
Unit testing
Writing tests alongside your code has
become a standard software develop-
ment practice. Some software devel-
opment strategies (such as test-
driven development) even hinge on
the authoring of test cases.
 Most introductions to the Go lan-
guage explain how to write tests by
using the built-in tools. Go was designed with testing in mind, and includes tooling for
running tests inside projects. Any Go source file that ends with _test.go is treated as a
test file. The tool go test is used to run these tests.
 Within _test.go files, you can write functions that begin with Test and that take a
single parameter of type *testing.T. Each function will be executed as a unit test. Say
you have a source file called hello.go. This file contains a single function, Hello, that
returns the string hello, as shown in the following listing.
package hello
func Hello() string {
     return "hello"
}
To write a test for this simple function, create a file called hello_test.go and add tests
there, as shown in the next listing.
package hello
import "testing"
func TestHello(t *testing.T) {
     if v := Hello(); v != "hello" {
            t.Errorf("Expected 'hello', but got '%s'", v)
     }
}
Listing 5.9
A Simple hello
Listing 5.10
A hello test
The test is always in the same 
package as the code it’s testing.
The testing package contains 
Go’s built-in testing tools.
TestHello follows the 
pattern of a test function.
Reports errors through the *testing.T object
Testing code goes with source code
We see two common mistakes when pro-
grammers are learning to test Go code.
The first is to try to put the test files in
their own directory. Popular testing tools in
other languages do this, but Go doesn’t.
Test files belong in the same directory as
the code they test.
The second mistake is to try to put the
tests in a different package (package
hello_test or something similar). Tests
should go in the same package as the
code they test. This makes it possible to
test unexported code as well as just the
public API.
