116
CHAPTER 5
Debugging and testing
TECHNIQUE 22
Logging to an arbitrary writer
Sending messages to Standard Error is useful for simple tools. When you’re building
servers, applications, or system services, you need a better place to send your log mes-
sages. Later in the chapter, you’ll look at writing directly to the system log, but here
you’ll look at using the log package to write to any io.Writer.
PROBLEM
You want to send logging messages to a file or to a network service without having to
write your own logging system.
SOLUTION
Initialize a new log.Logger and send log messages to that.
DISCUSSION
The log.Logger provides features for sending log data to any io.Writer, which
includes things like file handles and network connections (net.Conn). The next list-
ing shows a brief example that illustrates setting up a log file and sending messages. 
package main
import (
     "log"
     "os"
)
func main() {
     logfile, _ := os.Create("./log.txt")
     defer     logfile.Close()
     logger := log.New(logfile, "example ", log.LstdFlags|log.Lshortfile)
     logger.Println("This is a regular message.")
     logger.Fatalln("This is a fatal error.")
     logger.Println("This is the end of the function.")
}
This example begins by creating a log file and then using it as a destination for log
messages.
NOTE
The way we set up this example, the log file will get overwritten every
time because we used os.Create. This is nice for our example, but you may
want to open an existing log file instead of clobbering it.
When creating a new log.Logger, you can pass three pieces of information to it. The
first is the io.Writer where you want to send messages. The second is a prefix for log
messages, and the third is a list of flags that determines the format of the log message.
To understand the second and third, let’s take a look at some sample log data from
the log.txt file generated by the preceding program:
Listing 5.2
Logging to a file
Creates a log file
Makes sure it 
gets closed
Creates
a logger
Sends it some
messages
As before, this will 
never get called.
