33
3.1
Protocol buffers
FIELD NUMBERS
Each field has a unique identifier in the message to identify the field in the binary
message format. Since field numbers are unique identifiers for the fields, those num-
bers shouldn’t be changed to provide a backward compatibility guarantee. If you want
to remove a field, it is best to reserve it with the reserved keyword before removing it
to prevent future definitions with the same field number or name. You can also
reserve those fields by using their field numbers one by one or by a range with the
help of the to keyword. For example, removing the customer_id field with field num-
ber 3 and adding a new field with the same field name or number with a different type
will cause problems. If the client has the old message definition and the server has the
new one, a data compatibility problem will result because they contain the same field
but the data types are different:
message CreateOrderRequest {
  reserved 1, 2, 3 to 7; 
  reserved "customer_id"; 
  int64 user_id = 7;
  repeated Item items = 8;
  float amount = 9;
}
Required fields in a message can be thought of as frequently used fields since you can-
not skip them as you can for optional fields. It is a best practice to reserve some numbers
between 1 and 15 for the fields that can be frequently used since the numbers take 1
byte to encode in that range. For example, if you introduce a field with the name
correlation_id, and it is used in almost all types of requests, you can assign one of the
pre-reserved numbers for this new field. In the same way, it takes 2 bytes to encode num-
bers from 16 to 2,047. Giving frequently used fields numbers between 1 and 15 will
increase performance quality. Now that we understand how to create a simple message,
let’s look at how protocol buffer messages are converted into a binary wire format.
3.1.2
Protocol buffer encoding
The main goal of protocol buffer encoding is to convert .proto file content into a binary
format to send over a wire. The protocol buffer compiler uses a set of rules to convert
messages to a binary format for better performance during marshalling (serializing),
sending (over a wire), and unmarshalling (deserializing) this data. Let’s analyze the
example that follows and see how protocol buffer encoding works under the hood.
 The CreateOrderRequest message has only one field, user_id, with type int, and
field number 1. We compiled this message and used it in our production code:
// order.proto
message CreateOrderRequest {
    int64 user_id = 1;
}
Reservation by single or ranged 
numbers such as 3 to 7
customer_id is reserved since 
user_id is introduced.
