32
CHAPTER 3
Getting up and running with gRPC and Golang
3.1
Protocol buffers
Protocol buffers allow you to serialize structured data to be transmitted over a wire.
You can also define service functions and generate language-specific source code. The
definitions of messages and service functions are written in a configuration file called
a .proto file, which also contains version information for the protocol we will use (pro-
to3) within this book. There are two other versions: proto1, which is deprecated, and
proto2. The primary motivation behind the proto3 release is to simplify the syntax
used in proto2. (For a detailed comparison of proto3 and proto2, see https://www
.hackingnote.com/en/versus/proto2-vs-proto3.) You already saw a sample message in
chapter 2, so let’s dive a bit deeper this time.
3.1.1
Defining message type
Let’s say you want to define a CreateOrderRequest message format in that each Create-
OrderRequest has a user_id, items, and amount. In this case, the content of the .proto
file would be like this:
syntax = “proto3” 
message CreateOrderRequest {
  int64 user_id = 1; 
  repeated Item items = 2; 
  float amount = 3; 
}
Let’s focus on the meaning of each part for each field in CreateOrderRequest.
FIELD RULES
Message fields can be one of the following:
Singular—A structured message can have at most one of these fields. This field
is the default field rule.
Repeated—Any field with this rule may contain multiple values, including zero. The
order of these items is preserved. In the previous example, multiple item values can
be in the message (e.g., a customer ordered multiple products simultaneously).
FIELD TYPES
Field types are the data type of each field and can be one of the scalar types, such as
string and integer. (See a complete list of the scalar types at http://mng.bz/N2VN.)
These can be enums or any other embedded message type. The embedded type is
Item in the previous example since it should also be defined in the .proto file as a cus-
tom type.
FIELD NAMES
The Protobuf compiler requires naming conventions for field naming since it gener-
ates source code for multiple languages by relying on those rules. The field name
should be lowercase; if it contains more than one word, it should be separated by an
underscore (e.g., user_id).
Protocol version
Owner of this order
List of items for this order
Total amount of this order that should be paid
