38
CHAPTER 3
Getting up and running with gRPC and Golang
Don’t worry about the missing part for now. We will see complete examples in upcom-
ing chapters. This example shows how quickly you can create a client instance and call
methods specific to the order domain. You don’t need to deal with connection-related
operations; serializing/deserializing is handled out of the box.
 Using autogenerated source code in the same project structure is easy, but what if
you need to use those files as a dependency in external projects? For example, you
generated stubs for the Payment, Order, and Shipping service and now want to use
them in another project that can be written in another language other than Go. In
this case, it would be better to maintain .proto files in a separate repository. However,
keeping .proto files and their generations in the same location is easier if you are
using a mono repo. Let’s look at how we can maintain .proto files and generate them
in a separate repository.
3.3
Maintaining .proto files
In this section we’ll see how to prepare a separate repository to maintain .proto files,
generate source code for multiple languages, and keep the files in dedicated folders.
The primary reason to maintain .proto files in a separate repository is to be able to
generate stubs for any language for use by any consumer. If we keep those operations
within a microservice project that contains Go production codes, then any external
non-Go consumer can depend on this Go project. Generated Java source codes in a
Go microservices project may not be a good idea since they will never be used for
interservice communication. They will, however, still be shipped and tagged with your
production Go source code.
3.3.1
Proto project structure
Assume you created a repository, github.com/huseyinbabal/microservices-proto,
with dedicated folders for each service to store .proto files. This project will have the
following characteristics:
.proto files are grouped by service folders such as order/order.proto in the root
folder.
There is a folder inside the root project for each language to store language-
specific implementations. 
Generated source code for each service will be formatted as a typical Go mod-
ule project since it will be added as a dependency on the consumer side. 
– As an example, the module name of the Order service will be
github.com/huseyinbabal/microservices-proto/golang/order.
Generated source code will be tagged: golang/<service_name>/<version> (e.g.,
golang/order/v1.2.3). This is the convention for the Go module to resolve the
dependency that lives in subfolders in the remote repository:
