222
CHAPTER 9
Using the cloud
This only scratches the surface of containers, cloud-native computing, and cloud com-
puting in general. If you’re interested in more information, numerous books, training
courses, and other information cover the topic in more detail.
 One of the most important elements of cloud services that we need to look at in
more detail is the way you manage the services. The interface to manage cloud ser-
vices provides a point of interaction for Go applications.
9.2
Managing cloud services
Managing cloud services, whether they’re IaaS, PaaS, or SaaS, typically happens
through an API. This enables command-line tools, custom user interfaces, autono-
mous applications (bots), and other tools to manage the services for you. Cloud ser-
vices are programmable.
 Web applications, such as the web console each cloud service vendor provides,
appear to be simple and effective ways to view and manage cloud services. For some
simple cases, this works. But the full power of the cloud is in the ability to program it.
That includes automatically scaling horizontally, automatically repairing problems,
and operating on large numbers of cloud assets at the same time.
 Each of the cloud providers offers a REST API, and most of the time an SDK is built
to interact with the API. The SDK or the API can be used within your applications to
use the cloud services.
9.2.1
Avoiding cloud provider lock-in
Cloud services are like platforms, and each has its own API. Although they provide the
same or similar feature sets, their programmable REST API is often quite different. An
SDK designed for one service provider won’t work against a competitor. There isn’t a
common API specification that they all implement.
TECHNIQUE 56
Working with multiple cloud providers
Many cloud service providers exist, and they’re distributed all over the world. Some
are region-specific, conforming to local data-sovereignty laws, whereas others are
global companies. Some are public and have an underlying infrastructure that’s
shared with others; others are private, and everything down to the hardware is yours.
These cloud providers can compete on price, features, and the changing needs of the
global landscape.
 Given the continuously changing landscape, it’s useful to remain as flexible as pos-
sible when working with cloud providers. We’ve seen code written specifically for one
cloud provider that has caused an application to become stuck on that provider, even
when the user wanted to switch. Switching would be a lot of work, causing delays in
new features. The trick is to avoid this kind of lock-in up front.
