228
CHAPTER 9
Using the cloud
DISCUSSION
The os package has the capability to detect a wide range of details about the environ-
ment. The following list highlights several examples:

os.Hostname() returns the kernel’s value for the hostname.
The process ID for the application can be retrieved with os.Getpid().
Operating systems can and do have different path and path list separators.
Using os.PathSeparator or os.PathListSeparator instead of characters
allows applications to work with the system they’re running on.
To find the current working directory, use os.Getwd().
Information from the os package can be used in combination with other information
to know more about a host. For example, if you try to look up the IP addresses for the
machine an application is running on by looking at all the addresses associated with
all the interfaces to the machine, you can end up with a long list. That list would
include the localhost loop-back and IPv4 and IPv6 addresses, even when one case may
not be routable to the machine. To find the IP address to use, an application can look
up the hostname, known by the system, and find the associated IP address. The follow-
ing listing shows this method.
func main() {
     name, err := os.Hostname()
     if err != nil {
            fmt.Println(err)
            return
     }
     addrs, err := net.LookupHost(name)
     if err != nil {
            fmt.Println(err)
            return
     }
     for _, a := range addrs {
            fmt.Println(a)
     }
The system knows its own hostname, and looking up the address for that hostname
will return the local one. This is useful for an application that can be run in a variety
of environments or scaled horizontally. The hostname and address information could
change or have a high rate of variability.
 Go applications can be compiled for a variety of operating systems and run in vari-
ous environments. Applications can detect information about their environment
rather that assuming it. This removes the opportunity for bugs or other unexpected
situations.
Listing 9.6
Look up the host’s IP addresses via the hostname
Retrieves the hostname 
as the kernel knows it
Looks up the IP 
addresses associated 
with the hostname
Prints each of the IP addresses, as 
there can be more than one
