For online information and ordering of this and other Manning books, please visit
www.manning.com. The publisher offers discounts on this book when ordered in quantity. 
For more information, please contact
Special Sales Department
Manning Publications Co.
20 Baldwin Road
PO Box 761
Shelter Island, NY 11964
Email: orders@manning.com
©2022 by Manning Publications Co. All rights reserved.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in 
any form or by means electronic, mechanical, photocopying, or otherwise, without prior 
written permission of the publisher.
Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish their products are 
claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear in the book, and Manning 
Publications was aware of a trademark claim, the designations have been printed in initial caps 
or all caps.
Recognizing the importance of preserving what has been written, it is Manning’s policy to have 
the books we publish printed on acid-free paper, and we exert our best efforts to that end. 
Recognizing also our responsibility to conserve the resources of our planet, Manning books
are printed on paper that is at least 15 percent recycled and processed without the use of 
elemental chlorine.
The author and publisher have made every effort to ensure that the information in this book 
was correct at press time. The author and publisher do not assume and hereby disclaim any 
liability to any party for any loss, damage, or disruption caused by errors or omissions, whether 
such errors or omissions result from negligence, accident, or any other cause, or from any 
usage of the information herein.
Manning Publications Co.
Development editor:
Doug Rudder
20 Baldwin Road
Technical development editor:
Arthur Zubarev
PO Box 761
Review editor:
Mihaela Batinić
Shelter Island, NY 11964
Production editor: Deirdre S. Hiam
Copy editors: Frances Buran and 
Tiffany Taylor
Proofreader: Katie Tennant
Technical proofreader:
Tim van Deurzen
Typesetter and cover designer:
Marija Tudor
ISBN 9781617299599
Printed in the United States of America
