ABOUT THIS BOOK
xv
Chapter 4, “Control structures,” explores common mistakes related to loops
and other control structures.
Chapter 5, “Strings,” looks at the principle of string representation and com-
mon mistakes leading to code inaccuracy or inefficiency.
Chapter 6, “Functions and methods,” explores common problems related to
functions and methods, such as choosing a receiver type and preventing com-
mon defer bugs.
Chapter 7, “Error management,” walks through idiomatic and accurate error
handling in Go.
Chapter 8, “Concurrency: Foundations,” presents the fundamental concepts
behind concurrency. We discuss topics such as why concurrency isn’t always
faster, the differences between concurrency and parallelism, and workload
types.
Chapter 9, “Concurrency: Practice,” looks at concrete examples of mistakes
related to applying concurrency when using Go channels, goroutines, and
other primitives.
Chapter 10, “The standard library,” contains common mistakes made when
using the standard library with HTTP, JSON, or (for example) the time API.
Chapter 11, “Testing,” discusses mistakes that make testing and benchmarking
more brittle, less effective, and less accurate.
Chapter 12, “Optimizations,” closes the book by exploring how to optimize an
application for performance, from understanding CPU fundamentals to Go-
specific topics.
About the code
This book contains many examples of source code both in numbered listings and in
line with normal text. In both cases, source code is formatted in a fixed-width font
like this to separate it from ordinary text. Sometimes code is also in bold to high-
light code that has changed from previous steps in the chapter, such as when a new
feature adds to an existing line of code.
 In many cases, the original source code has been reformatted; we’ve added line
breaks and reworked indentation to accommodate the available page space in the
book. In some cases, even this was not enough, and listings include line-continuation
markers (➥). Additionally, comments in the source code have often been removed
from the listings when the code is described in the text. Code annotations accompany
many of the listings, highlighting important concepts.
 You can get executable snippets of code from the liveBook (online) version of this
book 
at 
https://livebook.manning.com/book/100-go-mistakes-how-to-avoid-them.
The complete code for the examples in the book is available for download from the
Manning website at https://www.manning.com/books/100-go-mistakes-how-to-avoid
-them, and from GitHub at https://github.com/teivah/100-go-mistakes.
