3
1.2
Simple doesn’t mean easy
Safety—Go is a strong, statically typed language. Hence, it has strict compile-
time rules, which ensure the code is type-safe in most cases.
Go was built from the ground up with solid features such as outstanding concurrency
primitives with goroutines and channels. There’s not a strong need to rely on external
libraries to build efficient concurrent applications. Observing how important concur-
rency is these days also demonstrates why Go is such a suitable language for the pres-
ent and probably for the foreseeable future.
 Some also consider Go a simple language. And, in a sense, this isn’t necessarily
wrong. For example, a newcomer can learn the language’s main features in less than a
day. So why read a book centered on the concept of mistakes if Go is simple?
1.2
Simple doesn’t mean easy
There is a subtle difference between simple and easy. Simple, applied to a technology,
means not complicated to learn or understand. However, easy means that we can
achieve anything without much effort. Go is simple to learn but not necessarily easy to
master.
 Let’s take concurrency, for example. In 2019, a study focusing on concurrency
bugs was published: “Understanding Real-World Concurrency Bugs in Go.”1 This
study was the first systematic analysis of concurrency bugs. It focused on multiple pop-
ular Go repositories such as Docker, gRPC, and Kubernetes. One of the most import-
ant takeaways from this study is that most of the blocking bugs are caused by
inaccurate use of the message-passing paradigm via channels, despite the belief that
message passing is easier to handle and less error-prone than sharing memory.
 What should be an appropriate reaction to such a takeaway? Should we consider
that the language designers were wrong about message passing? Should we reconsider
how we deal with concurrency in our project? Of course not.
 It’s not a question of confronting message passing versus sharing memory and
determining the winner. However, it’s up to us as Go developers to thoroughly under-
stand how to use concurrency, its implications on modern processors, when to favor
one approach over the other, and how to avoid common traps. This example high-
lights that although a concept such as channels and goroutines can be simple to learn,
it isn’t an easy topic in practice.
 This leitmotif—simple doesn’t mean easy—can be generalized to many aspects of
Go, not only concurrency. Hence, to be proficient Go developers, we must have a
thorough understanding of many aspects of the language, which requires time, effort,
and mistakes.
 This book aims to help accelerate our journey toward proficiency by delving into
100 Go mistakes. 
1 T. Tu, X. Liu, et al., “Understanding Real-World Concurrency Bugs in Go,” presented at ASPLOS 2019, April
13–17, 2019.
