6
CHAPTER 1
Go: Simple to learn but hard to master
1.3.5
Lack of API convenience
Making common mistakes that weaken how convenient an API is for our clients is
another type of mistake. If an API isn’t user-friendly, it will be less expressive and,
hence, harder to understand and more error-prone.
 We can think about many situations such as overusing any types, using the wrong
creational pattern to deal with options, or blindly applying standard practices from
object-oriented programming that affect the usability of our APIs. This book covers
common mistakes that prevent us from exposing convenient APIs for our users. 
1.3.6
Under-optimized code
Under-optimized code is another type of mistake made by developers. It can happen
for various reasons, such as not understanding language features or even a lack of fun-
damental knowledge. Performance is one of the most obvious impacts of this mistake,
but not the only one.
 We can think about optimizing code for other goals, such as accuracy. For exam-
ple, this book provides some common techniques to ensure that floating-point opera-
tions are accurate. Meanwhile, we will cover plenty of cases that can negatively impact
performance code because of poorly parallelized executions, not knowing how to
reduce allocations, or the impacts of data alignment, for example. We will tackle opti-
mization via different prisms. 
1.3.7
Lack of productivity
In most cases, what’s the best language we can choose when working on a new project?
The one we’re the most productive with. Being comfortable with how a language
works and exploiting it to get the best out of it is crucial to reach proficiency.
 In this book, we will cover many cases and concrete examples that will help us to be
more productive while working in Go. For instance, we’ll look at writing efficient tests
to ensure that our code works, relying on the standard library to be more effective,
and getting the best out of the profiling tools and linters. Now, it’s time to delve into
those 100 common Go mistakes. 
Summary
Go is a modern programming language that enables developer productivity,
which is crucial for most companies today.
Go is simple to learn but not easy to master. This is why we need to deepen our
knowledge to make the most effective use of the language.
Learning via mistakes and concrete examples is a powerful way to be proficient
in a language. This book will accelerate our path to proficiency by exploring
100 common mistakes.
