21
2.5
#5: Interface pollution
2.5.2
When to use interfaces
When should we create interfaces in Go? Let’s look at three concrete use cases where
interfaces are usually considered to bring value. Note that the goal isn’t to be exhaus-
tive because the more cases we add, the more they would depend on the context.
However, these three cases should give us a general idea:
Common behavior
Decoupling
Restricting behavior
COMMON BEHAVIOR
The first option we will discuss is to use interfaces when multiple types implement a
common behavior. In such a case, we can factor out the behavior inside an interface.
If we look at the standard library, we can find many examples of such a use case. For
example, sorting a collection can be factored out via three methods:
Retrieving the number of elements in the collection
Reporting whether one element must be sorted before another
Swapping two elements
Hence, the following interface was added to the sort package:
type Interface interface {
Len() int
Less(i, j int) bool
Swap(i, j int)
}
This interface has a strong potential for reusability because it encompasses the com-
mon behavior to sort any collection that is index-based.
 Throughout the sort package, we can find dozens of implementations. If at some
point we compute a collection of integers, for example, and we want to sort it, are we
necessarily interested in the implementation type? Is it important whether the sorting
algorithm is a merge sort or a quicksort? In many cases, we don’t care. Hence, the sort-
ing behavior can be abstracted, and we can depend on the sort.Interface.
 Finding the right abstraction to factor out a behavior can also bring many benefits.
For example, the sort package provides utility functions that also rely on
sort.Interface, such as checking whether a collection is already sorted. For
instance,
func IsSorted(data Interface) bool {
n := data.Len()
for i := n - 1; i > 0; i-- {
if data.Less(i, i-1) {
return false
}
}
return true
}
Number of elements
Checks two elements
Swaps two elements
