28
CHAPTER 2
Code and project organization
call this function from another package and to inject a Store implementation to cli-
ent. However, being obliged to do that means that the design should be challenged.
 Furthermore, what happens if another client uses the InMemoryStore struct? In
that case, perhaps we would like to move the Store interface to another package, or
back to the implementation package—but we discussed why, in most cases, this isn’t a
best practice. It looks like a code smell.
 Hence, in general, returning an interface restricts flexibility because we force all
the clients to use one particular type of abstraction. In most cases, we can get inspira-
tion from Postel’s law (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc761):
Be conservative in what you do, be liberal in what you accept from others.
                                                                                              —Transmission Control Protocol
If we apply this idiom to Go, it means
Returning structs instead of interfaces
Accepting interfaces if possible
Of course, there are some exceptions. As software engineers, we are familiar with the
fact that rules are never true 100% of the time. The most relevant one concerns the
error type, an interface returned by many functions. We can also examine another
exception in the standard library with the io package:
func LimitReader(r Reader, n int64) Reader {
return &LimitedReader{r, n}
}
Here, the function returns an exported struct, io.LimitedReader. However, the func-
tion signature is an interface, io.Reader. What’s the rationale for breaking the rule
we’ve discussed so far? The io.Reader is an up-front abstraction. It’s not one defined
by clients, but it’s one that is forced because the language designers knew in advance
that this level of abstraction would be helpful (for example, in terms of reusability and
composability).
 All in all, in most cases, we shouldn’t return interfaces but concrete implementa-
tions. Otherwise, it can make our design more complex due to package dependencies
and can restrict flexibility because all the clients would have to rely on the same
abstraction. Again, the conclusion is similar to the previous sections: if we know (not
foresee) that an abstraction will be helpful for clients, we can consider returning an
interface. Otherwise, we shouldn’t force abstractions; they should be discovered by cli-
ents. If a client needs to abstract an implementation for whatever reason, it can still do
that on the client’s side.
 In the next section, we will discuss a common mistake related to using any. 
2.8
#8: any says nothing
In Go, an interface type that specifies zero methods is known as the empty interface,
interface{}. With Go 1.18, the predeclared type any became an alias for an empty
interface; hence, all the interface{} occurrences can be replaced by any. In many
