43
2.11
#11: Not using the functional options pattern
return cfg, nil
}
func NewServer(addr string, config Config) (*http.Server, error) {
// ...
}
The ConfigBuilder struct holds the client configuration. It exposes a Port method to
set up the port. Usually, such a configuration method returns the builder itself so that
we can use method chaining (for example, builder.Foo("foo").Bar("bar")). It also
exposes a Build method that holds the logic on initializing the port value (whether
the pointer was nil, etc.) and returns a Config struct once created.
NOTE
There isn’t a single possible implementation of the builder pattern.
For example, some may favor an approach where the logic to define the final
port value is inside the Port method instead of Build. This section’s scope is
to present an overview of the builder pattern, not to look at all the different
possible variations.
Then, a client would use our builder-based API in the following manner (we assume
that we have put our code in an httplib package):
builder := httplib.ConfigBuilder{}
builder.Port(8080)
cfg, err := builder.Build()
if err != nil {
return err
}
server, err := httplib.NewServer("localhost", cfg)
if err != nil {
return err
}
First, the client creates a ConfigBuilder and uses it to set up an optional field, such as
the port. Then, it calls the Build method and checks for errors. If OK, the configura-
tion is passed to NewServer.
 This approach makes port management handier. It’s not required to pass an inte-
ger pointer, as the Port method accepts an integer. However, we still need to pass a
config struct that can be empty if a client wants to use the default configuration:
server, err := httplib.NewServer("localhost", nil)
Another downside, in some situations, is related to error management. In program-
ming languages where exceptions are thrown, builder methods such as Port can raise
exceptions if the input is invalid. If we want to keep the ability to chain the calls, the
function can’t return an error. Therefore, we have to delay the validation in the Build
Creates a 
builder config
Sets the port
Builds the 
config struct
Passes the config struct
