105
4.4
#33: Making wrong assumptions during map iterations
s.m[current.ID] = &current
}
}
In this example, we don’t store a pointer referencing customer; instead, we store a
pointer referencing current. current is a variable referencing a unique Customer
during each iteration. Therefore, following the loop, we have stored different point-
ers referencing different Customer structs in the map. The other solution is to store a
pointer referencing each element using the slice index:
func (s *Store) storeCustomers(customers []Customer) {
for i := range customers {
customer := &customers[i]
s.m[customer.ID] = customer
}
}
In this solution, customer is now a pointer. Because it’s initialized during each itera-
tion, it has a unique address. Therefore, we store different pointers in the maps.
 When iterating over a data structure using a range loop, we must recall that all the
values are assigned to a unique variable with a single unique address. Therefore, if we
store a pointer referencing this variable during each iteration, we will end up in a situ-
ation where we store the same pointer referencing the same element: the latest one.
We can overcome this issue by forcing the creation of a local variable in the loop’s
scope or creating a pointer referencing a slice element via its index. Both solutions
are fine. Also note that we took a slice data structure as an input, but the problem
would be similar with a map.
 In the next section, we see common mistakes related to map iteration. 
4.4
#33: Making wrong assumptions during map iterations
Iterating over a map is a common source of misunderstanding and mistakes, mostly
because developers make wrong assumptions. In this section, we discuss two different
cases:
Ordering
Map update during an iteration
We will see two common mistakes based on wrong assumptions while iterating over a
map.
4.4.1
Ordering
Regarding ordering, we need to understand a few fundamental behaviors of the map
data structure:
It doesn’t keep the data sorted by key (a map isn’t based on a binary tree).
It doesn’t preserve the order in which the data was added. For example, if we
insert pair A before pair B, we shouldn’t make any assumptions based on this
insertion order.
Stores this pointer 
in the map
Assigns to customer a 
pointer of the i element
Stores the 
customer pointer
