112
CHAPTER 4
Control structures
 Another approach could be to make the readFile function a closure:
func readFiles(ch <-chan string) error {
for path := range ch {
err := func() error {
// ...
defer file.Close()
// ...
}()
if err != nil {
return err
}
}
return nil
}
But intrinsically, this remains the same solution: adding another surrounding function
to execute the defer calls during each iteration. The plain old function has the advan-
tage of probably being a bit clearer, and we can also write a specific unit test for it.
 When using defer, we must remember that it schedules a function call when the
surrounding function returns. Hence, calling defer within a loop will stack all the
calls: they won’t be executed during each iteration, which may cause memory leaks if
the loop doesn’t terminate, for example. The most convenient approach to solving
this problem is introducing another function to be called during each iteration. But if
performance is crucial, one downside is the overhead added by the function call. If we
have such a case and we want to prevent this overhead, we should get rid of defer and
handle the defer call manually before looping. 
Summary
The value element in a range loop is a copy. Therefore, to mutate a struct, for
example, access it via its index or via a classic for loop (unless the element or
the field you want to modify is a pointer).
Understanding that the expression passed to the range operator is evaluated
only once before the beginning of the loop can help you avoid common mis-
takes such as inefficient assignment in channel or slice iteration.
Using a local variable or accessing an element using an index, you can prevent
mistakes while copying pointers inside a loop.
To ensure predictable outputs when using maps, remember that a map data
structure
– Doesn’t order the data by keys
– Doesn’t preserve the insertion order
– Doesn’t have a deterministic iteration order
– Doesn’t guarantee that an element added during an iteration will be pro-
duced during this iteration
Using break or continue with a label enforces breaking a specific statement.
This can be helpful with switch or select statements inside loops.
Extracting loop logic inside a function leads to executing a defer statement at
the end of each iteration.
Runs the 
provided closure
