121
5.5
#40: Useless string conversions
}
return sb.String()
}
Before the iteration, we compute the total number of bytes the final string will contain
and assign the result to total. Note that we’re not interested in the number of runes
but the number of bytes, so we use the len function. Then we call Grow to guarantee
space for total bytes before iterating over the strings.
 Let’s run a benchmark to compare the three versions (v1 using +=; v2 using
strings.Builder{} without preallocation; and v3 using strings.Builder{} with pre-
allocation). The input slice contains 1,000 strings, and each string contains 1,000 bytes:
BenchmarkConcatV1-4
16
72291485 ns/op
BenchmarkConcatV2-4
1188
878962 ns/op
BenchmarkConcatV3-4
5922
190340 ns/op
As we can see, the latest version is by far the most efficient: 99% faster than v1 and
78% faster than v2. We may ask ourselves, how can iterating twice on the input slice
make the code faster? The answer lies in mistake #21, “Inefficient slice initialization”:
if a slice isn’t allocated with a given length or capacity, the slice will keep growing each
time it becomes full, resulting in additional allocations and copies. Hence, iterating
twice is the most efficient option in this case.
 strings.Builder is the recommended solution to concatenate a list of strings.
Usually, this solution should be used within a loop. Indeed, if we just have to concate-
nate a few strings (such as a name and a surname), using strings.Builder is not rec-
ommended as doing so will make the code a bit less readable than using the +=
operator or fmt.Sprintf.
 As a general rule, we can remember that performance-wise, the strings.Builder
solution is faster from the moment we have to concatenate more than about five
strings. Even though this exact number depends on many factors, such as the size of
the concatenated strings and the machine, this can be a rule of thumb to help us
decide when to choose one solution over the other. Also, we shouldn’t forget that if
the number of bytes of the future string is known in advance, we should use the Grow
method to preallocate the internal byte slice.
 Next, we will discuss the bytes package and why it may prevent useless string con-
versions. 
5.5
#40: Useless string conversions
When choosing to work with a string or a []byte, most programmers tend to favor
strings for convenience. But most I/O is actually done with []byte. For example,
io.Reader, io.Writer, and io.ReadAll work with []byte, not strings. Hence, work-
ing with strings means extra conversions, although the bytes package contains many
of the same operations as the strings package.
 Let’s see an example of what we shouldn’t do. We will implement a getBytes func-
tion that takes an io.Reader as an input, reads from it, and calls a sanitize function.
