130
CHAPTER 6
Functions and methods
 When we return parameters in a function or a method, we can attach names to
these parameters and use them as regular variables. When a result parameter is
named, it’s initialized to its zero value when the function/method begins. With
named result parameters, we can also call a naked return statement (without argu-
ments). In that case, the current values of the result parameters are used as the
returned values.
 Here’s an example that uses a named result parameter b:
func f(a int) (b int) {
b = a
return
}
In this example, we attach a name to the result parameter: b. When we call return
without arguments, it returns the current value of b.
 When is it recommended that we use named result parameters? First, let’s consider
the following interface, which contains a method to get the coordinates from a given
address:
type locator interface {
getCoordinates(address string) (float32, float32, error)
}
Because this interface is unexported, documentation isn’t mandatory. Just by reading
this code, can you guess what these two float32 results are? Perhaps they are a lati-
tude and a longitude, but in which order? Depending on the conventions, latitude
isn’t always the first element. Therefore, we have to check the implementation to
understand the results.
 In that case, we should probably use named result parameters to make the code
easier to read:
type locator interface {
getCoordinates(address string) (lat, lng float32, err error)
}
With this new version, we can understand the meaning of the method signature by
looking at the interface: latitude first, longitude second.
 Now, let’s pursue the question of when to use named result parameters with the
method implementation. Should we also use named result parameters as part of the
implementation itself?
func (l loc) getCoordinates(address string) (
lat, lng float32, err error) {
// ...
}
In this specific case, having an expressive method signature can also help code read-
ers. Hence, we probably want to use named result parameters as well.
Names the int 
result parameter b
Returns the 
current value of b
