140
CHAPTER 6
Functions and methods
status = StatusSuccess
return nil
}
We keep updating status depending on the cases, but now notify and increment-
Counter receive a string pointer. Why does this approach work?
 Using defer evaluates the arguments right away: here, the address of status. Yes,
status itself is modified throughout the function, but its address remains constant,
regardless of the assignments. Hence, if notify or incrementCounter uses the value
referenced by the string pointer, it will work as expected. But this solution requires
changing the signature of the two functions, which may not always be possible.
 There’s another solution: calling a closure as a defer statement. As a reminder, a
closure is an anonymous function value that references variables from outside its
body. The arguments passed to a defer function are evaluated right away. But we must
know that the variables referenced by a defer closure are evaluated during the closure
execution (hence, when the surrounding function returns).
 Here is an example to clarify how defer closures work. A closure references two
variables, one as a function argument and the second as a variable outside its body:
func main() {
i := 0
j := 0
defer func(i int) {
fmt.Println(i, j)
}(i)
i++
j++
}
Here, the closure uses i and j variables. i is passed as a function argument, so it’s eval-
uated immediately. Conversely, j references a variable outside of the closure body, so
it’s evaluated when the closure is executed. If we run this example, it will print 0 1.
 Therefore, we can use a closure to implement a new version of our function:
func f() error {
var status string
defer func() {
notify(status)
incrementCounter(status)
}()
// The rest of the function is unchanged
}
Here, we wrap the calls to both notify and incrementCounter within a closure. This
closure references the status variable from outside its body. Therefore, status is
evaluated once the closure is executed, not when we call defer. This solution also
works and doesn’t require notify and incrementCounter to change their signature.
Calls as a defer function 
a closure that accepts 
an integer as an input
i is the function input, and 
j is an external variable.
Passes i to the closure 
(evaluated right away)
Calls a closure as 
the defer function
Calls notify within the 
closure and reference status
Calls incrementCounter 
within the closure and 
reference status
