160
CHAPTER 7
Error management
 The logic we need to implement isn’t straightforward:
If rows.Scan succeeds,
– If rows.Close succeeds, return no error.
– If rows.Close fails, return this error.
And if rows.Scan fails, the logic is a bit more complex because we may have to handle
two errors:
If rows.Scan fails,
– If rows.Close succeeds, return the error from rows.Scan.
– If rows.Close fails . . . then what?
If both rows.Scan and rows.Close fail, what should we do? There are several options.
For example, we can return a custom error that conveys two errors. Another option,
which we will implement, is to return the rows.Scan error but log the rows.Close
error. Here’s our final implementation of the anonymous function:
defer func() {
closeErr := rows.Close()
if err != nil {
if closeErr != nil {
log.Printf("failed to close rows: %v", err)
}
return
}
err = closeErr
}()
The rows.Close error is assigned to another variable: closeErr. Before assigning it to
err, we check whether err is different from nil. If that’s the case, an error was
already returned by getBalance, so we decide to log err and return the existing error.
 As discussed, errors should always be handled. In the case of errors returned by
defer calls, the very least we should do is ignore them explicitly. If this isn’t enough,
we can handle the error directly by logging it or propagating it up to the caller, as
illustrated in this section. 
Summary
Using panic is an option to deal with errors in Go. However, it should only be
used sparingly in unrecoverable conditions: for example, to signal a program-
mer error or when you fail to load a mandatory dependency.
Wrapping an error allows you to mark an error and/or provide additional
context. However, error wrapping creates potential coupling as it makes the
source error available for the caller. If you want to prevent that, don’t use error
wrapping.
If you use Go 1.13 error wrapping with the %w directive and fmt.Errorf, com-
paring an error against a type or a value has to be done using errors.As or
Assigns the rows.Close 
error to another variable
If err was already not 
nil, we prioritize it.
Otherwise, we 
return closeErr.
