166
CHAPTER 8
Concurrency: Foundations
introducing different steps that separate concurrent threads can tackle. Meanwhile,
parallelism is about execution, and we can use it at the step level by adding more par-
allel threads. Understanding these two concepts is fundamental to being a proficient
Go developer.
 The next section discusses a prevalent mistake: believing that concurrency is always
the way to go. 
8.2
#56: Thinking concurrency is always faster
A misconception among many developers is believing that a concurrent solution is
always faster than a sequential one. This couldn’t be more wrong. The overall perfor-
mance of a solution depends on many factors, such as the efficiency of our structure
(concurrency), which parts can be tackled in parallel, and the level of contention
among the computation units. This section reminds us about some fundamental
knowledge of concurrency in Go; then we will see a concrete example where a concur-
rent solution isn’t necessarily faster.
8.2.1
Go scheduling
A thread is the smallest unit of processing that an OS can perform. If a process wants
to execute multiple actions simultaneously, it spins up multiple threads. These threads
can be
Concurrent—Two or more threads can start, run, and complete in overlapping
time periods, like the waiter thread and the coffee machine thread in the previ-
ous section.
Parallel—The same task can be executed multiple times at once, like multiple
waiter threads.
The OS is responsible for scheduling the thread’s processes optimally so that
All the threads can consume CPU cycles without being starved for too much
time.
The workload is distributed as evenly as possible among the different CPU
cores.
NOTE
The word thread can also have a different meaning at a CPU level. Each
physical core can be composed of multiple logical cores (the concept of
hyperthreading), and a logical core is also called a thread. In this section,
when we use the word thread, we mean the unit of processing, not a logical
core.
A CPU core executes different threads. When it switches from one thread to another,
it executes an operation called context switching. The active thread consuming CPU
cycles was in an executing state and moves to a runnable state, meaning it’s ready to be
executed pending an available core. Context switching is considered an expensive
