167
8.2
#56: Thinking concurrency is always faster
operation because the OS needs to save the current execution state of a thread before
the switch (such as the current register values).
 As Go developers, we can’t create threads directly, but we can create goroutines,
which can be thought of as application-level threads. However, whereas an OS thread
is context-switched on and off a CPU core by the OS, a goroutine is context-switched
on and off an OS thread by the Go runtime. Also, compared to an OS thread, a gorou-
tine has a smaller memory footprint: 2 KB for goroutines from Go 1.4. An OS thread
depends on the OS, but, for example, on Linux/x86-32, the default size is 2 MB (see
http://mng.bz/DgMw). Having a smaller size makes context switching faster.
NOTE
Context switching a goroutine versus a thread is about 80% to 90%
faster, depending on the architecture.
Let’s now discuss how the Go scheduler works to overview how goroutines are han-
dled. Internally, the Go scheduler uses the following terminology (see http://mng.bz/
N611):
G—Goroutine
M—OS thread (stands for machine)
P—CPU core (stands for processor)
Each OS thread (M) is assigned to a CPU core (P) by the OS scheduler. Then, each
goroutine (G) runs on an M. The GOMAXPROCS variable defines the limit of Ms in
charge of executing user-level code simultaneously. But if a thread is blocked in a sys-
tem call (for example, I/O), the scheduler can spin up more Ms. As of Go 1.5, GOMAX-
PROCS is by default equal to the number of available CPU cores.
 A goroutine has a simpler lifecycle than an OS thread. It can be doing one of the
following:
Executing—The goroutine is scheduled on an M and executing its instructions.
Runnable—The goroutine is waiting to be in an executing state.
Waiting—The goroutine is stopped and pending something completing, such
as a system call or a synchronization operation (such as acquiring a mutex).
There’s one last stage to understand about the implementation of Go scheduling:
when a goroutine is created but cannot be executed yet; for example, all the other Ms
are already executing a G. In this scenario, what will the Go runtime do about it? The
answer is queuing. The Go runtime handles two kinds of queues: one local queue per
P and a global queue shared among all the Ps.
 Figure 8.6 shows a given scheduling situation on a four-core machine with GOMAX-
PROCS equal to 4. The parts are the logical cores (Ps), goroutines (Gs), OS threads
(Ms), local queues, and global queue.
 First, we can see five Ms, whereas GOMAXPROCS is set to 4. But as we mentioned, if
needed, the Go runtime can create more OS threads than the GOMAXPROCS value.
 
