181
8.5
#59: Not understanding the concurrency impacts of a workload type
Now, let’s change the channel to an unbuffered one to illustrate the memory
model guarantee:
i := 0
ch := make(chan struct{})
go func() {
i = 1
<-ch
}()
ch <- struct{}{}
fmt.Println(i)
Changing the channel type makes this example
data-race-free (see figure 8.10). Here we can
see the main difference: the write is guaranteed
to happen before the read. Note that the
arrows don’t represent causality (of course, a
receive is caused by a send); they represent the
ordering guarantees of the Go memory model.
Because a receive from an unbuffered channel
happens before a send, the write to i will always
occur before the read.
Throughout this section, we have covered the main guarantees of the Go memory
model. Understanding these guarantees should be part of our core knowledge when
writing concurrent code and can prevent us from making wrong assumptions that can
lead to data races and/or race conditions.
 The following section discusses why it’s important to understand a workload type. 
8.5
#59: Not understanding the concurrency impacts of a 
workload type
This section looks at the impacts of a workload type in a concurrent implementation.
Depending on whether a workload is CPU- or I/O-bound, we may need to tackle the
problem differently. Let’s first define these concepts and then discuss the impacts.
 In programming, the execution time of a workload is limited by one of the
following:
The speed of the CPU—For example, running a merge sort algorithm. The work-
load is called CPU-bound.
The speed of I/O—For example, making a REST call or a database query. The
workload is called I/O-bound.
The amount of available memory—The workload is called memory-bound.
NOTE
The last is the rarest nowadays, given that memory has become very
cheap in recent decades. Hence, this section focuses on the two first workload
types: CPU- and I/O-bound.
Makes the channel 
unbuffered
Send
Goroutine 1
Read i 
go
Receive
Goroutine 2
Write i 
Goroutine created
Figure 8.10
If the channel is 
unbuffered, it doesn’t lead to a 
data race.
