187
8.6
#60: Misunderstanding Go contexts
are only interested in the latest position. We have at our disposal a publisher inter-
face containing a single method:
type publisher interface {
Publish(ctx context.Context, position flight.Position) error
}
This method accepts a context and a position. We assume that the concrete imple-
mentation calls a function to publish a message to a broker (such as using Sarama to
publish a Kafka message). This function is context aware, meaning it can cancel a
request once the context is canceled.
 Assuming we don’t receive an existing context, what should we provide to the Pub-
lish method for the context argument? We have mentioned that the applications are
interested only in the latest position. Hence, the context that we build should convey
that after 4 seconds, if we haven’t been able to publish a flight position, we should
stop the call to Publish:
type publishHandler struct {
pub publisher
}
func (h publishHandler) publishPosition(position flight.Position) error {
ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(context.Background(), 4*time.Second)
defer cancel()
return h.pub.Publish(ctx, position)
}
This code creates a context using the context.WithTimeout function. This function
accepts a timeout and a context. Here, as publishPosition doesn’t receive an exist-
ing context, we create one from an empty context with context.Background. Mean-
while, context.WithTimeout returns two variables: the context created and a
cancellation func() function that will cancel the context once called. Passing the con-
text created to the Publish method should make it return in at most 4 seconds.
 What’s the rationale for calling the cancel function as a defer function? Inter-
nally, context.WithTimeout creates a goroutine that will be retained in memory for 4
seconds or until cancel is called. Therefore, calling cancel as a defer function means
that when we exit the parent function, the context will be canceled, and the goroutine
created will be stopped. It’s a safeguard so that when we return, we don’t leave
retained objects in memory.
 Let’s now move to the second aspect of Go contexts: cancellation signals. 
8.6.2
Cancellation signals
Another use case for Go contexts is to carry a cancellation signal. Let’s imagine that
we want to create an application that calls CreateFileWatcher(ctx context.Context,
filename string) within another goroutine. This function creates a specific file
watcher that keeps reading from a file and catches updates. When the provided con-
text expires or is canceled, this function handles it to close the file descriptor.
Creates the context that will
time out after 4 seconds
Defers the 
cancellation
Passes the created context
