190
CHAPTER 8
Concurrency: Foundations
deadline, a cancellation signal, and/or values. We can use this context and pass it to
context-aware libraries, meaning libraries exposing functions accepting a context. But
now, suppose we have to create a library, and we want external clients to provide a
context that could be canceled. 
8.6.4
Catching a context cancellation
The context.Context type exports a Done method that returns a receive-only notifica-
tion channel: <-chan struct{}. This channel is closed when the work associated with
the context should be canceled. For example,
The Done channel related to a context created with context.WithCancel is
closed when the cancel function is called.
The Done channel related to a context created with context.WithDeadline is
closed when the deadline has expired.
One thing to note is that the internal channel should be closed when a context is can-
celed or has met a deadline, instead of when it receives a specific value, because the
closure of a channel is the only channel action that all the consumer goroutines will
receive. This way, all the consumers will be notified once a context is canceled or a
deadline is reached.
 Furthermore, context.Context exports an Err method that returns nil if the
Done channel isn’t yet closed. Otherwise, it returns a non-nil error explaining why the
Done channel was closed: for example,
A context.Canceled error if the channel was canceled
A context.DeadlineExceeded error if the context’s deadline passed
Let’s see a concrete example in which we want to keep receiving messages from a
channel. Meanwhile, our implementation should be context aware and return if the
provided context is done:
func handler(ctx context.Context, ch chan Message) error {
for {
select {
case msg := <-ch:
// Do something with msg
case <-ctx.Done():
return ctx.Err()
}
}
}
We create a for loop and use select with two cases: receiving messages from ch or
receiving a signal that the context is done and we have to stop our job. While dealing
with channels, this is an example of how to make a function context aware.
Keeps receiving 
messages from ch
If the context is done, returns 
the error associated with it
