205
9.6
#66: Not using nil channels
some information, we need a channel without data. The idiomatic way to handle it is a
channel of empty structs: chan struct{}.
 In Go, an empty struct is a struct without any fields. Regardless of the architecture,
it occupies zero bytes of storage, as we can verify using unsafe.Sizeof:
var s struct{}
fmt.Println(unsafe.Sizeof(s))
0
NOTE
Why not use an empty interface (var i interface{})? Because an
empty interface isn’t free; it occupies 8 bytes on 32-bit architecture and 16
bytes on 64-bit architecture.
An empty struct is a de facto standard to convey an absence of meaning. For example,
if we need a hash set structure (a collection of unique elements), we should use an
empty struct as a value: map[K]struct{}.
 Applied to channels, if we want to create a channel to send notifications without
data, the appropriate way to do so in Go is a chan struct{}. One of the best-known
utilizations of a channel of empty structs comes with Go contexts, which we discuss in
this chapter.
 A channel can be with or without data. If we want to design an idiomatic API in
regard to Go standards, let’s remember that a channel without data should be
expressed with a chan struct{} type. This way, it clarifies for receivers that they
shouldn’t expect any meaning from a message’s content—only the fact that they have
received a message. In Go, such channels are called notification channels.
 The next section discusses how Go behaves with nil channels and its rationale for
using them. 
9.6
#66: Not using nil channels
A common mistake while working with Go and channels is forgetting that nil channels
can sometimes be helpful. So what are nil channels, and why should we care about
them? That is the scope of this section.
 Let’s start with a goroutine that creates a nil channel and waits to receive a mes-
sage. What should this code do?
var ch chan int
<-ch
ch is a chan int type. The zero value of a channel being nil, ch is nil. The goroutine
won’t panic; however, it will block forever.
 The principle is the same if we send a message to a nil channel. This goroutine
blocks forever:
var ch chan int
ch <- 0
Nil channel
