211
9.7
#67: Being puzzled about channel size
9.7
#67: Being puzzled about channel size
When we create a channel using the make built-in function, the channel can be either
unbuffered or buffered. Related to this topic, two mistakes happen fairly frequently:
being confused about when to use one or the other; and, if we use a buffered channel,
what size to use. Let’s examine these points.
 First, let’s remember the core concepts. An unbuffered channel is a channel with-
out any capacity. It can be created by either omitting the size or providing a 0 size:
ch1 := make(chan int)
ch2 := make(chan int, 0)
Using an unbuffered channel (sometimes called a synchronous channel), the sender will
block until the receiver receives data from the channel.
 Conversely, a buffered channel has a capacity, and it must be created with a size
greater than or equal to 1:
ch3 := make(chan int, 1)
With a buffered channel, a sender can send messages while the channel isn’t full.
Once the channel is full, it will block until a receiver goroutine receives a message. For
example:
ch3 := make(chan int, 1)
ch3 <-1
ch3 <-2
The first send isn’t blocking, whereas the second one is, as the channel is full at this
stage.
 Let’s take a step back and discuss the fundamental differences between these two
channel types. Channels are a concurrency abstraction to enable communication
among goroutines. But what about synchronization? In concurrency, synchronization
means we can guarantee that multiple goroutines will be in a known state at some
point. For example, a mutex provides synchronization because it ensures that only
one goroutine can be in a critical section at the same time. Regarding channels:
An unbuffered channel enables synchronization. We have the guarantee that
two goroutines will be in a known state: one receiving and another sending a
message.
A buffered channel doesn’t provide any strong synchronization. Indeed, a pro-
ducer goroutine can send a message and then continue its execution if the
channel isn’t full. The only guarantee is that a goroutine won’t receive a mes-
sage before it is sent. But this is only a guarantee because of causality (you don’t
drink your coffee before you prepare it).
It’s essential to keep in mind this fundamental distinction. Both channel types enable
communication, but only one provides synchronization. If we need synchronization,
we must use unbuffered channels. Unbuffered channels may also be easier to reason
Non-blocking
Blocking
