228
CHAPTER 9
Concurrency: Practice
repeatedly send notifications to multiple goroutines, sync.Cond is a solution. This
primitive is based on condition variables that set up containers of threads waiting for a
specific condition. Using sync.Cond, we can broadcast signals that wake all the gorou-
tines waiting on a condition.
 Let’s extend our knowledge of concurrency primitives using golang.org/x and
the errgroup package. 
9.13
#73: Not using errgroup
Regardless of the programming language, reinventing the wheel is rarely a good idea.
It’s also pretty common for codebases to reimplement how to spin up multiple gorou-
tines and aggregate the errors. But a package in the Go ecosystem is designed to sup-
port this frequent use case. Let’s look at it and understand why it should be part of the
toolset of Go developers.
 golang.org/x is a repository providing extensions to the standard library. The
sync sub-repository contains a handy package: errgroup.
 Suppose we have to handle a function, and we receive as an argument some data
that we want to use to call an external service. Due to constraints, we can’t make a sin-
gle call; we make multiple calls with a different subset each time. Also, these calls are
made in parallel (see figure 9.13).
Figure 9.13
Each circle results in a parallel call.
In case of one error during a call, we want to return it. In case of multiple errors, we
want to return only one of them. Let’s write the skeleton of the implementation using
only the standard concurrency primitives:
func handler(ctx context.Context, circles []Circle) ([]Result, error) {
results := make([]Result, len(circles))
wg := sync.WaitGroup{}
wg.Add(len(results))
for i, circle := range circles {
i := i
circle := circle
Client
Handler
Request
External call
External call
External call
Aggregate results
Creates a wait group to 
wait for all the goroutines 
that we spin up
Creates a new i variable used in the goroutine 
(see mistake #63, “Not being careful with 
goroutines and loop variables”)
Same for
circle
