233
Summary
In each case, we should remain very cautious. Also, let’s note that some linters can
catch this issue—for example, using go vet:
$ go vet .
./main.go:19:9: Increment passes lock by value: Counter contains sync.Mutex
As a rule of thumb, whenever multiple goroutines have to access a common sync ele-
ment, we must ensure that they all rely on the same instance. This rule applies to all
the types defined in the sync package. Using pointers is a way to solve this problem:
we can have either a pointer to a sync element or a pointer to a struct containing a
sync element. 
Summary
Understanding the conditions when a context can be canceled should matter
when propagating it: for example, an HTTP handler canceling the context
when the response has been sent.
Avoiding leaks means being mindful that whenever a goroutine is started, you
should have a plan to stop it eventually.
To avoid bugs with goroutines and loop variables, create local variables or call
functions instead of closures.
Understanding that select with multiple channels chooses the case randomly
if multiple options are possible prevents making wrong assumptions that can
lead to subtle concurrency bugs.
Send notifications using a chan struct{} type.
Using nil channels should be part of your concurrency toolset because it allows
you to remove cases from select statements, for example.
Carefully decide on the right channel type to use, given a problem. Only
unbuffered channels provide strong synchronization guarantees.
You should have a good reason to specify a channel size other than one for buff-
ered channels.
Being aware that string formatting may lead to calling existing functions means
watching out for possible deadlocks and other data races.
Calling append isn’t always data-race-free; hence, it shouldn’t be used concur-
rently on a shared slice.
Remembering that slices and maps are pointers can prevent common data races.
To accurately use sync.WaitGroup, call the Add method before spinning up
goroutines.
You can send repeated notifications to multiple goroutines with sync.Cond.
You can synchronize a group of goroutines and handle errors and contexts with
the errgroup package.

sync types shouldn’t be copied.
