235
10.2
#76: time.After and memory leaks
10.1
#75: Providing a wrong time duration
The standard library provides common functions and methods that accept a
time.Duration. However, because time.Duration is an alias for the int64 type, new-
comers to the language can get confused and provide a wrong duration. For example,
developers with a Java or JavaScript background are used to passing numeric types.
 To illustrate this common error, let’s create a new time.Ticker that will deliver the
ticks of a clock every second:
ticker := time.NewTicker(1000)
for {
select {
case <-ticker.C:
// Do something
}
}
If we run this code, we notice that ticks aren’t delivered every second; they are deliv-
ered every microsecond.
 Because time.Duration is based on the int64 type, the previous code is correct
since 1000 is a valid int64. But time.Duration represents the elapsed time between
two instants in nanoseconds. Therefore, we provided NewTicker with a duration of
1,000 nanoseconds = 1 microsecond.
 This mistake happens frequently. Indeed, standard libraries in languages such as
Java and JavaScript sometimes ask developers to provide durations in milliseconds.
 Furthermore, if we want to purposely create a time.Ticker with an interval of 1
microsecond, we shouldn’t pass an int64 directly. We should instead always use the
time.Duration API to avoid possible confusion:
ticker = time.NewTicker(time.Microsecond)
// Or
ticker = time.NewTicker(1000 * time.Nanosecond)
This is not the most complex mistake in this book, but developers with a background
in other languages can easily fall into the trap of believing that milliseconds are
expected for the functions and methods in the time package. We must remember to
use the time.Duration API and provide an int64 alongside a time unit.
 Now, let’s discuss a common mistake when using the time package with
time.After. 
10.2
#76: time.After and memory leaks
time.After(time.Duration) is a convenient function that returns a channel and
waits for a provided duration to elapse before sending a message to this channel. Usu-
ally, it’s used in concurrent code; otherwise, if we want to sleep for a given duration,
we can use time.Sleep(time.Duration). The advantage of time.After is that it can
