244
CHAPTER 10
The standard library
However, there’s an important gotcha to remember if we use a map of any: any
numeric value, regardless of whether it contains a decimal, is converted into a
float64 type. We can observe this by printing the type of m["id"]:
fmt.Printf("%T\n", m["id"])
float64
We should be sure we don’t make the wrong assumption and expect numeric values
without decimals to be converted into integers by default. Making incorrect assump-
tions with type conversions could lead, for example, to goroutine panics.
 The following section discusses the most common mistakes while writing applica-
tions that interact with SQL databases. 
10.4
#78: Common SQL mistakes
The database/sql package provides a generic interface around SQL (or SQL-like)
databases. It’s also fairly common to see some patterns or mistakes while using this
package. Let’s delve into five common mistakes.
10.4.1 Forgetting that sql.Open doesn’t necessarily establish 
connections to a database
When using sql.Open, one common misconception is expecting this function to
establish connections to a database:
db, err := sql.Open("mysql", dsn)
if err != nil {
return err
}
But this isn’t necessarily the case. According to the documentation (https://
pkg.go.dev/database/sql),
Open may just validate its arguments without creating a connection to the database.
Actually, the behavior depends on the SQL driver used. For some drivers, sql.Open
doesn’t establish a connection: it’s only a preparation for later use (for example, with
db.Query). Therefore, the first connection to the database may be established lazily.
 Why do we need to know about this behavior? For example, in some cases, we want
to make a service ready only after we know that all the dependencies are correctly set
up and reachable. If we don’t know this, the service may accept traffic despite an erro-
neous configuration.
 If we want to ensure that the function that uses sql.Open also guarantees that the
underlying database is reachable, we should use the Ping method:
db, err := sql.Open("mysql", dsn)
if err != nil {
