324
CHAPTER 12
Optimizations
for i := 0; i < len(foos); i++ {
s += foos[i].i
}
return s
}
Because a slice is backed by an array, it means a contiguous allocation of Foo structs.
 Let’s discuss the backing array for the two versions of Foo and check two cache
lines of data (128 bytes). In figure 12.25, each gray bar represents 8 bytes of data, and
the darker bars are the i variables (the fields we want to sum).
As we can see, with the latest version of Foo, each cache line is more useful because it
contains on average 33% more i variables. Therefore, iterating over a Foo slice to sum
all the int64 elements is more efficient.
 We can confirm this observation with a benchmark. If we run two benchmarks with
the two versions of Foo using a slice of 10,000 elements, the version using the latest
Foo struct is about 15% faster on my machine. That’s a 15% speed improvement from
changing the position of a single field in a struct.
 Let’s be mindful of data alignment. As we have seen in this section, reorganizing
the fields of a Go struct to sort them by size in descending order prevents padding.
Preventing padding means allocating more compact structs, possibly leading to opti-
mizations such as reducing the frequency of GCs and better spatial locality.
 The following section discusses the fundamental differences between stack and
heap and why they matter. 
12.5
#95: Not understanding stack vs. heap
In Go, a variable can be allocated either on the stack or on the heap. These two types
of memory are fundamentally different and can significantly impact data-intensive
applications. Let’s examine these concepts and the rules the compiler follows to
decide where a variable should be allocated.
12.5.1 Stack vs. heap
First, let’s discuss the differences between the stack and the heap. The stack is the
default memory; it’s a last-in, first-out (LIFO) data structure that stores all the local
Sums all 
the i fields
type Foo struct {
    b1 byte
    i int64
    b2 byte
}
type Foo struct {
    i int64
    b1 byte
    b2 byte
}
Cache line
Cache line
Cache line
Cache line
Figure 12.25
Because each cache 
line contains more i variables, 
iterating over a slice of Foo requires 
fewer cache lines total.
