337
12.8
#98: Not using Go diagnostics tooling
awoke := false
iter := 0
old := m.state
for {
// ...
}
if race.Enabled {
race.Acquire(unsafe.Pointer(m))
}
}
Thanks to this change, the Lock method can be inlined. The benefit is that a mutex
that isn’t already locked is now locked without paying the overhead of calling a func-
tion (speed improves around 5%). The slow path, when the mutex is already locked,
didn’t change. Previously it required one function call to execute this logic; it remains
one function call, this time to lockSlow.
 This optimization technique is about distinguishing between fast and slow paths. If
a fast path can be inlined but not a slow one, we can extract the slow path inside a ded-
icated function. Hence, if the inlining budget isn’t exceeded, our function is a candi-
date for inlining.
 Inlining isn’t just an invisible compiler optimization that we shouldn’t care about.
As seen in this section, understanding how inlining works and how to access the com-
piler’s decision can be a road to optimization using the fast-path inlining technique.
Extracting the slow path in a dedicated function prevents a function call if the fast
path is executed.
 The next section discusses common diagnostics tooling that can help us under-
stand what should be optimized in our Go applications. 
12.8
#98: Not using Go diagnostics tooling
Go offers a few excellent diagnostics tools to help us get insights into how an applica-
tion performs. This section focuses on the most important ones: profiling and the
execution tracer. Both tools are so important that they should be part of the core tool-
set of any Go developer who is interested in optimization. We’ll discuss profiling first.
12.8.1 Profiling
Profiling provides insights into the execution of an application. It allows us to resolve
performance issues, detect contention, locate memory leaks, and more. These
insights can be collected via several profiles:

CPU—Determines where an application spends its time

Goroutine—Reports the stack traces of the ongoing goroutines

Heap—Reports heap memory allocation to monitor current memory usage and
check for possible memory leaks
