344
CHAPTER 12
Optimizations
 Following are a few additional notes about profiling:
We haven’t mentioned the threadcreate profile because it’s been broken since
2013 (https://github.com/golang/go/issues/6104).
Be sure to enable only one profiler at a time: for example, do not enable CPU
and heap profiling simultaneously. Doing so can lead to erroneous observations.

pprof is extensible, and we can create our own custom profiles using pprof
.Profile.
We have seen the most important profiles that we can enable to help us understand
how an application performs and possible avenues for optimization. In general,
enabling pprof is recommended, even in production, because in most cases it offers
an excellent balance between its footprint and the amount of insight we can get from
it. Some profiles, such as the CPU profile, lead to performance penalties but only
during the time they are enabled.
 Let’s now look at the execution tracer. 
12.8.2 Execution tracer
The execution tracer is a tool that captures a wide range of runtime events with go
tool to make them available for visualization. It is helpful for the following:
Understanding runtime events such as how the GC performs
Understanding how goroutines execute
Identifying poorly parallelized execution
Let’s try it with an example given in mistake #56, “Thinking concurrency is always
faster.” We discussed two parallel versions of the merge sort algorithm. The issue with
the first version was poor parallelization, leading to the creation of too many gorou-
tines. Let’s see how the tracer can help us in validating this statement.
 We will write a benchmark for the first version and execute it with the -trace flag
to enable the execution tracer:
$ go test -bench=. -v -trace=trace.out
NOTE
We can also download a remote trace file using the /debug/pprof/
trace?debug=0 pprof endpoint.
This command creates a trace.out file that we can open using go tool:
$ go tool trace trace.out
2021/11/26 21:36:03 Parsing trace...
2021/11/26 21:36:31 Splitting trace...
2021/11/26 21:37:00 Opening browser. Trace viewer is listening on
http://127.0.0.1:54518
The web browser opens, and we can click View Trace to see all the traces during a spe-
cific timeframe, as shown in figure 12.39. This figure represents about 150 ms. We can
see multiple helpful metrics, such as the goroutine count and the heap size. The heap
size grows steadily until a GC is triggered. We can also observe the activity of the Go
