354
CHAPTER 12
Optimizations
For every 100 ms, the quota is set to 400 ms. If the eight threads are busy executing
goroutines, after 50 ms, we reach the quota of 400 ms (8 × 50 ms = 400 ms). What will
be the consequence? CFS will throttle the CPU resource. Hence, no more CPU
resources will be allocated until the start of another period. In other words, our appli-
cation will be on hold for 50 ms.
 For example, a service with an average latency of 50 ms can take up to 150 ms to
complete. This is a possible 300% penalty on the latency.
 So, what’s the solution? First, keep an eye on Go issue 33803 (https://github.com/
golang/go/issues/33803). Perhaps in a future version of Go, GOMAXPROCS will be
CFS-aware.
 A solution for today is to rely on a library made by Uber called automaxprocs
(github.com/uber-go/automaxprocs). We can use this library by adding a blank
import to go.uber.org/automaxprocs in main.go; it will automatically set GOMAX-
PROCS to match the Linux container CPU quota. In the previous example, GOMAXPROCS
would be set to 4 instead of 8, so we wouldn’t be able to reach a state where the CPU is
throttled.
 In summary, let’s remember that currently, Go isn’t CFS-aware. GOMAXPROCS is based
on the host machine rather than on the defined CPU limits. Consequently, we can
reach a state where the CPU is throttled, leading to long pauses and substantial effects
such as a significant latency increase. Until Go becomes CFS-aware, one solution is to
rely on automaxprocs to automatically set GOMAXPROCS to the defined quota. 
Summary
Understanding how to use CPU caches is important for optimizing CPU-bound
applications because the L1 cache is about 50 to 100 times faster than the main
memory.
Being conscious of the cache line concept is critical to understanding how to
organize data in data-intensive applications. A CPU doesn’t fetch memory word
by word; instead, it usually copies a memory block to a 64-byte cache line. To get
the most out of each individual cache line, enforce spatial locality.
Making code predictable for the CPU can also be an efficient way to optimize
certain functions. For example, a unit or constant stride is predictable for the
CPU, but a non-unit stride (for example, a linked list) isn’t predictable.
To avoid a critical stride, hence utilizing only a tiny portion of the cache, be
aware that caches are partitioned.
Knowing that lower levels of CPU caches aren’t shared across all the cores helps
avoid performance-degrading patterns such as false sharing while writing con-
currency code. Sharing memory is an illusion.
Use instruction-level parallelism (ILP) to optimize specific parts of your code to
allow a CPU to execute as many parallel instructions as possible. Identifying
data hazards is one of the main steps.
You can avoid common mistakes by remembering that in Go, basic types are
aligned with their own size. For example, keep in mind that reorganizing the
