Setting Up Service Alerting
252
Alerting basics
No microservice operates without incidents; even if you have a stable, highly tested, and well-maintained 
service, it can still experience various types of issues, such as the following:
•	 Resource constraints: A host running the service may experience high CPU utilization or 
insufficient RAM or disk space.
•	 Network congestion: The service may experience a sudden increase in load or decreased 
performance in any of its dependencies. This could limit its ability to process incoming requests 
or operate at the expected performance level.
•	 Dependency failures: Other services or libraries that your service is depending on may 
experience various issues, affecting your service execution.
Such issues can be self-resolving. For example, a slower network throughput could be a transient issue 
caused by temporary maintenance or a network device being restarted. Many other types of issues, 
which we call incidents, require some actions from the engineers to be mitigated.
To mitigate an incident, first, we need to detect it. Once the issue is known, we can notify the engineers 
or perform automated actions, such as an automated deployment rollback or application restart. In this 
chapter, we will describe the alerting technique that combines incident detection and notification. 
This technique can be used to automate the incident response to various types of microservice issues.
The key principles behind alerting are pretty simple and can be summarized by the following statements:
•	 To set up alerts, developers define the alerting conditions.
•	 Alerting conditions are based on the telemetry data (most commonly, metrics) and are defined 
in the form of queries.
•	 Each defined alerting condition is evaluated periodically, such as every minute.
•	 If the alerting condition is met, the associated actions are executed (for example, an email or 
an SMS is sent to an engineer).
To illustrate how alerting works, imagine that one of your services is emitting a metric called active_
user_count that reports the number of active users at a particular moment. Let’s assume that we 
would like to get notified if the number of active users suddenly drops to zero. Such a situation would 
likely indicate some incident with our service unless we have too few users (for simplicity, we will 
assume our system should always have some active users).
Using pseudocode, we could define the alerting condition for our use case in the following way:
active_user_count == 0
