Alerting best practices
265
If you configured Alertmanager correctly, you should get an email to the address you provided in 
the configuration. If you haven’t received an email, check the Docker logs of Alertmanager – users 
with two-factor email authentication may receive additional instructions for enabling notifications.
If everything worked well – congratulations, you have set up service alerting! We intentionally haven’t 
covered many of Alertmanager’s features – it includes many configurable settings that are outside the 
scope of this chapter. If you are interested in learning more about it, check the official documentation 
at https://prometheus.io/docs.
Now, let’s proceed to the next section, where we will provide some best practices for setting up service 
alerting that should help you increase your service reliability.
Alerting best practices
The knowledge you will gain by reading this section should be useful for establishing the new alerting 
process for your services. It will also help you improve existing alerts if you are working with some 
established alerting processes.
Among the most valuable best practices, I would highlight the following ones:
•	 Keep your alerts immediately actionable: Alerting is a powerful technique for ensuring any 
issues or incidents get acknowledged and addressed. However, you should not overuse it for 
the types of issues that do not require immediate attention. Some types of alerts, such as alerts 
indicating high saturation, are not necessarily actionable. For example, a sudden increase in 
CPU load may not indicate any immediately actionable issue, unless it remains high for some 
prolonged period (for example, the CPU load not going below 85% for more than 10 minutes), 
and may just be a transient symptom of high service usage. When creating alerts, think about 
whether an engineer needs to perform any manual action as a result of a notification, and 
reduce any possible noise as much as possible (for example, specify how long the metric 
should be breaching the threshold before an alert gets fired by providing the for value in the 
rule configuration).
•	 Include the runbook references: For each alert, ensure you have a runbook in place that 
provides clear instructions to the on-call engineers receiving it. Having an accurate and 
up-to-date runbook for each alert helps reduce the incident mitigation time and share relevant 
knowledge among all engineers.
•	 Ensure the alerting configuration is reviewed periodically: The best solution for ensuring the 
alerting configuration is accurate is to make it easy to access and review. One of the easiest solutions 
is to make the alerting configuration a part of your code base so that all alert configurations 
are easily reviewable. Perform periodic checks of your alerts to ensure all important scenarios 
are covered, as well as to ensure no alerts are outdated.
