Alerting basics
253
Once the alerting condition has been met, the alerting software would check actions that should be 
triggered based on its configuration. Assuming that we have configured our alerts to trigger email 
notifications, it would send the emails and include any necessary metadata. The metadata would 
include information such as which incident just occurred and, if provided, the steps to mitigate it.
We will provide some examples of alerting configurations later in this chapter. For now, we will focus 
on some practical use cases, providing you with some ideas for setting up alerting for your services.
Alerting use cases
There are many use cases for which you would need to set up automated alerts. In this section, we 
will provide some common examples that can act as a reference point for you.
In the Google SRE book we mentioned earlier in Chapter 10, there was a definition of The Four Golden 
Signals of monitoring, which can be used to monitor various types of applications, from microservices 
to data processing pipelines. These signals provide a great basis for service alerting, so let’s review 
them and describe how you can use each one to increase your service reliability:
•	 Latency: Latency is a measure of processing time, such as the duration of processing an API 
request, a Kafka message, or any other operation. It is the main indicator of system performance 
– when it gets too high, the system starts affecting its callers, creating network congestion. You 
should generally track the latency of your primary operations, such as API endpoints providing 
the critical functionality.
•	 Traffic: Traffic measures the load on your system, such as the number of requests your 
microservices are getting at the current moment. An example of a traffic-based metric is an API 
request rate, measured as the number of requests per second. Measuring traffic is important 
for ensuring you have enough capacity to handle the requests to your system.
•	 Errors: Errors are often measured as the error rate or the ratio between the failed and total 
operations. Measuring the error rate is critical for ensuring your services remain operational.
•	 Saturation: Saturation generally measures the utilization of your resources, such as RAM or 
disk usage, CPU, or I/O load. You should keep track of saturation to ensure your services don’t 
fail unexpectedly due to resource insufficiency.
These Four Golden Signals can help you establish monitoring and alerting for your services and critical 
operations, such as your primary API endpoints. Let’s provide some practical examples to help you 
understand some common alerting use cases.
First, let’s start with the common signals for API alerting that can be measured either across all 
endpoints or on a per-endpoint basis:
•	 API client error rate: The ratio between the requests that fail due to client errors and all requests
•	 API server error rate: The ratio between the requests that fail due to server errors and all requests
•	 API latency: The time it takes to process requests
