51
TECHNIQUE 6
Matching paths to content
 The way resolution works by default is important to know as well. The handler reg-
istered to /hello will work only for /hello. The handler registered to /goodbye/ will
be executed for /goodbye (with a redirect), /goodbye/, /goodbye/foo, /goodbye
/foo/bar, and so on.
 The handler function hello is mapped to the path /hello C. As arguments, the
handler functions receive an http.ResponseWriter and an http.Request. Optionally,
a name to say hello to can be in a query string with a key of name D. The requested
URL is a property on http.Request as url.URL. The Query method on the URL
returns either the value for the key, or an empty string if no value is available for the
key. If the value is empty here, it’s set to Inigo Montoya.
TIP
The net/url package, which contains the URL type, has many useful
functions for working with URLs.
NOTE To differentiate between HTTP methods, check the value of
http.Request.Method. This contains the method (for example, GET, POST,
and so on).
The goodbye function handles the path /goodbye/, including the case where addi-
tional text is appended E. In this case, a name can be optionally passed in through
the path. For example, a path of /goodbye/Buttercup will set the name to Buttercup
F. To achieve this, the URL is split by using the strings package to find the part of
the path following /goodbye/.
 The homePage function handles both the / path and any case where a page isn’t
found G. To decide whether to return a 404 Page Not Found message or home page
content, the http.Request.Path needs to be checked H. The http package contains
a NotFound helper function that can optionally be used to set the response HTTP code
to 404 and send the text 404 page not found.
TIP
The http package contains the Error function that can be used to set
the HTTP error code and respond with a message. The NotFound function
takes advantage of this for the 404 case.
Using multiple function handlers is the core way to handle different functions along-
side different paths. The pros of this method include the following:
As the basic method in the http package, it’s well documented and tested, and
examples are right at hand.
The paths and their mappings to functions are easy to read and follow.
Alongside the pros are some cons that lead many, including the authors, to use other
methods. The cons are as follows:
You can’t use different functions for different HTTP methods on the same path.
When creating REST APIs, the verb (for example, GET, POST, or DELETE) can
require significantly different functionality.
