54
CHAPTER 2
A solid foundation
 The pathResolver is set as the handler function for the built-in HTTP server when
the server is started D. For pathResolver to work as a handler function, it needs to
implement the ServeHTTP method and implicitly implement the HandlerFunc inter-
face. The ServeHTTP method is where path resolving happens.
 When a request comes into the server, the ServeHTTP method iterates over the
paths registered with the pathResolver E. For each path, it checks the current HTTP
method and path to see if a function is mapped to the combination F. This is a
check you construct because with REST servers you’ll often need to handle different
HTTP methods (for example, a DELETE or GET request) with entirely different func-
tions. When a match is found, the handler function registered for that case is exe-
cuted G. If no matched paths are found in the lookup, you default to a 404 Page Not
Found error H.
 You should be aware of the pros and cons of path resolution using the path pack-
age. Here are the pros:
Easy to get started with simple path matching.
Included in the standard library, the path package is well traveled and tested.
The cons have a common thread in that the path package is generic to paths and not
specific to URL paths. The cons are as follows:
The wildcard abilities of the path package are limited. For example, a path of
foo/* will match foo/bar but not foo/bar/baz. Using * for a wildcard stops at
the next /. To match foo/bar/baz, you’d need to look for a path like foo/*/*.
Because this is a generic path package rather than one specific to URLs, some
nice-to-have features are missing. For example, in listing 2.17 the path
/goodbye/* is registered. Visiting the path /goodbye in a browser will display a
Page Not Found message, whereas visiting /goodbye/ works. Although there’s a
technical path difference (the trailing /), the common web use case isn’t trans-
parently handled. You’ll need to identify and handle cases such as this one.
This method is useful for simple path scenarios and it’s one that we, the authors, have
successfully used.
TECHNIQUE 8
URL pattern matching
For most REST-style apps, simple pattern matching with regular expressions is more
than sufficient. But what if you want to go beyond that and do something fancy with
your URLs? The path package isn’t well suited for this because it supports only simple
POSIX-style pattern matching.
PROBLEM
Simple path-based matching isn’t enough for an application that needs to treat a path
more like a text string and less like a file path. This is particularly important when
matching across a path separator (/).
