45
Working with real-world web servers
core part of the standard library and are commonly in use, simple web servers were
introduced in chapter 1. This section moves beyond base web servers and covers some
practical gotchas that come up when building applications. For more information on
the http package, visit http://golang.org/pkg/net/http/.
2.3.1
Starting up and shutting down a server
Starting a server in Go is fairly easy. Using the net or http packages, you can create a
server, listen on a TCP port, and start responding to incoming connections and
requests. But what happens when you want to shut down that server? What if you shut
down the server while users are connected, or before all the data (such as logs or user
information) has been written to disk?
 The commands used to start and stop a server in the operating system should be
handled by an initialization daemon. Using go run on a codebase is handy in develop-
ment and may be used with some systems based on twelve-factor apps but isn’t typical
or recommended. Manually starting an application is simple but isn’t designed to inte-
grate nicely with operations tools or handle problems such as an unexpected system
restart. Initialization daemons were designed for these cases and do them well.
 Most systems have a default toolchain used for initialization. For example, systemd
(https://freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/) is common on Linux distribu-
tions such as Debian and Ubuntu systems. If a script is used with systemd, you’ll be
able to use commands like those in the following listing.
$ systemctl start myapp.service
$ systemctl stop myapp.service
A wide variety of initialization daemons are available. They vary depending on your
flavor of operating system, and numerous ones exist for the various versions of Linux.
You may be familiar with some of their names, including upstart, init, and launchd.
Because configuration scripts and commands can vary widely among these systems, we
don’t cover them here. These tools are well documented, and many tutorials and
examples are available.
NOTE
We recommend that you don’t write your applications as daemons
but rather use an initialization daemon to manage the execution of the
application.
A COMMON ANTIPATTERN: A CALLBACK URL
A simple pattern (or rather antipattern) for development is to have a URL such as
/kill or /shutdown, that will shut down the server when called. The following listing
showcases a simple version of this method.
Listing 2.13
Start and stop applications with upstart
Starts the application myapp
Stops the running application myapp
