49
TECHNIQUE 6
Matching paths to content
2.3.2
Routing web requests
One of the fundamental tasks of any HTTP server is to receive a given request and map
it to an internal function that can then return a result to the client. This routing of a
request to a handler is important; do it well, and you can build web services that are
easily maintainable and flexible enough to fit future needs. This section presents vari-
ous routing scenarios and solutions for each. 
 We start with simple scenarios and provide simple solutions. But we encourage you
to plan ahead. The simple solution we talk about first is great for direct mappings, but
may not provide the flexibility that a contemporary web application needs. 
TECHNIQUE 6
Matching paths to content
Web applications and servers providing a REST API typically execute different func-
tionality for different paths. Figure 2.3 illustrates the path portion of the URL com-
pared to the other components. In the Hello World example from chapter 1, listing
1.16 uses a single function to handle all possible paths. For a simple Hello World
application, this works. But a single function doesn’t handle multiple paths well and
doesn’t scale to real-world applications. This section covers multiple techniques to
handle differentiating paths and, in some cases, different HTTP methods (sometimes
referred to as verbs).
PROBLEM
To correctly route requests, a web server needs to be able to quickly and efficiently
parse the path portion of a URL.
SOLUTION: MULTIPLE HANDLERS
To expand on the method used in listing 1.16, this technique uses a handler function
for each path. This technique, presented in the guide “Writing Web Applications”
(http://golang.org/doc/articles/wiki/), uses a simple pattern that can be great for
web apps with only a few simple paths. This technique has nuances that you’ll see in a
moment that may make you consider one of the techniques following it.
DISCUSSION
Let’s start with a simple program that illustrates using multiple handlers, shown in the
following listing.
The path portion
of the URL
http://example.com/foo#bar?baz=quo
Figure 2.3
The path portion of the 
URL used in routing requests
