the encryption wouldn’t work, naturally. But they mustn’t be so obviously
related that someone with the public key can use it to reverse-engineer the
private key.
That’s the whole trick, and it depends on the fact that these two numbers
have a one-way relationship. Just as finding logarithms is harder than
exponentiation, while it’s easy to multiply two numbers together,
factorising the result (working backwards from it to find the two numbers)
is much harder. (At least, for now. We’ll return to this point later.)
Signing
This is great, but it still doesn’t quite solve the problem that we faced earlier
in this chapter: how can Bob know that a given message actually comes
from Alice, and not merely someone claiming to be Alice?
In a way, public-key cryptography such as RSA makes this problem worse,
not better. At least with symmetric encryption, the key is secret, and so Bob
knew that a message encrypted with it could only have come from someone
who shares the secret. Now that Bob’s key is public, though, the message
could have come from anyone! How can Alice prove that it’s really from
her?
Well, we can solve this signing problem by exploiting the connection
between the private and public keys in a different way.
We’ve already seen that Alice can use her private key to decrypt a message
sent to her by anyone in possession of her public key. But, conversely, she
can also use the same private key to encrypt a message that anyone in
possession of her public key—that is, everyone—can read.
What would be the point of doing this, and what message would she
encrypt in such a way? Well, perhaps you’ve already guessed.
Alice can compute a hash digest of her message, and encrypt this hash with
her private key. Anyone who has her public key can decrypt and verify this
hash, so they know that the message it’s attached to could only have come
from Alice.
An RSA-style private key serves two purposes, then: first, people can send
you messages that only you can read, and second, you can send people
messages that only you could have sent. This is very neat.
Authentication
In essence, cryptographic authentication consists of two separate, but
related problems: integrity (is the message intact?) and signature (who sent
it?) HMAC solves the integrity problem, while RSA and other public-key
cryptosystems can solve the signature problem.
Indeed, you could think of RSA message signing as a kind of extension of
the HMAC idea, but where HMAC uses a symmetric key, RSA is
asymmetric. It’s also rather slow, because there’s a lot of crunching of some
very big numbers.
In practice, then, RSA is often used in a similar way to Diffie-Hellman-
Merkle: as a way to set up an initial session key that will be used for a
subsequent, symmetrically-encrypted conversation.
That’s how the encryption in your web browser works, for example:
Transport Layer Security (TLS, the modern protocol which succeeded the
older Secure Sockets Layer, or SSL) uses asymmetric encryption. It’s not
necessarily DHM or RSA, but those are among the options.
During the handshake phase of the connection, the client and server use
asymmetric encryption to negotiate the session key, and in turn that key will
be used to symmetrically encrypt the rest of the conversation.
Verification
Now, you might be wondering: “If Alice and Bob have never met or
communicated before, how can Alice know that Bob’s public key is really
Bob’s, though?”.
For example, what if Eve decided to surreptitiously register her own public
key under Bob’s name in the global directory? Then she could read any
message intended for Bob and encrypted to that key. What guarantee does
Alice have that this hasn’t happened?
That’s a good question, and a lot can depend on the answer. In the TLS
example, I can have an encrypted exchange with some website—
bankofbob.com, perhaps—and be reasonably confident that no one other
than me and the owner of that website are privy to its contents.
But, to your point, how can I know if that’s the real Bank of Bob website?
After all, it’s easy to register a domain, and even generate a TLS certificate
for that domain. What’s to stop Eve doing just that?
Well, nothing. What I—or rather Alice—would really like to do is meet
Bob somewhere in person, perhaps over a crisp, chewy, wood-fired pizza,
and a glass or two of the amusing house wine. There, they can verify each
other’s identity, and make a close inspection of each other’s keys, and
anything else of interest.
Then, in future interactions, Alice could be confident she’s really talking to
Bob, and vice versa.
But we already know that if Alice and Bob had a secure way to
communicate about their keys, then they wouldn’t need the keys in the first
place. So, while a pizza date would be delightful, it doesn’t solve our key
exchange problem.
The chain of trust
To see how to get around this, suppose there’s some third party that both
Alice and Bob trust: we’ll call him Trent. If Trent says that Bob’s public
key is really Bob’s, that’ll be good enough for Alice. She, or anyone else
who trusts Trent, can check with him to verify a public key that claims to be
Bob’s.
In the TLS example, Trent would be the certificate authority (CA): he can
sign Bob’s certificate with his own, thus verifying that it’s really Bob’s.
Anyone who trusts Trent’s certificate should also trust Bob’s certificate.
In fact, to extend this idea, and to reduce the workload on Trent of signing
every TLS certificate in the world, Trent could delegate his trust to others.
He could sign a bunch of people’s certificates, making them all certificate
authorities, and Alice or Bob can choose which CA they’d prefer to deal
with.
That choice doesn’t matter, except that some will be more expensive than
others, especially if you pay for the super-fancy TLS certificates with the
gold edging. The point is that all the CAs are equally trustworthy, because
Trent trusts them all equally, and if you trust Trent, you implicitly trust
them too.
In fact, you can extend this chain of trust as far as you like. As long as you
can trace the signing chain for any given certificate all the way back to
Trent—the root CA—then it’s just as good as verifying it directly.
It seems like all the pieces are falling into place now. With secure keys,
strong encryption, reliable authentication, and scalable key exchange
protocols, we’ve got everything we need to do some real cryptography.
Let’s try.
18. Cryptography
Anyone, from the most clueless amateur to the best cryptographer, can
create an algorithm that he himself can’t break.
—Bruce Schneier, “Memo to the Amateur Cipher Designer”
You should never try to invent your own cipher, or, for that matter, a
perpetual motion machine. In both cases the results are likely to be
disappointing, and it’s not a good use of your time.
We’ve learned a lot in this book about how ciphers work, or don’t,
principally by trying to invent them ourselves, but now you might be
wondering what the upshot of it all is, in practical terms.
I mean, if you need to encrypt stuff in a Go program in real life, you
definitely shouldn’t use the shift cipher, or any other simple cipher that you
invented (or read in the Knowhow Book of Spycraft). You shouldn’t even
write the code to implement some existing cipher yourself. What should
you do, then?
That’s easy, and I can give you the answer in three words. Just use AES.
A little history
The initials “AES” stand for “Advanced Encryption Standard”, as perhaps
you know. To explain what’s so advanced about it, we’ll need to say a word
or two about the history of previous encryption standards.
In the beginning was the Caesar cipher (actually, he stole the idea from the
ancient Egyptians). Fast-forward through two thousand years of fascinating
cryptographic developments, which I urge you to look into after class,
including Vigenère ciphers, the Enigma machine, and one-time pads. It’s
fun stuff, but we can’t stop to talk about it: we’ve already arrived in 1973.
Sorry about the bumpy landing.
The origins of DES
It makes a lot of sense for a government, or any other big organisation with
secrets, to have an official standard cipher. The United States government is
pretty big, and has a lot of secrets (not always terribly well-kept), so in
1973 it invited proposals for just such a national standard encryption
system.
The result was the Data Encryption Standard (DES). DES uses a key size of
56 bits. Yes, that sounds rather small, especially to those who’ve read this
book, and so it is. The restricted key size was imposed by the National
Security Agency (NSA), the US cryptographic intelligence bureau, for
predictable reasons: they didn’t want anyone using a cipher that they
themselves couldn’t break.
You’d think governments would be in favour of encryption that’s as strong
as possible in order to keep their own secrets safe, and so they are, up to a
point. The problem is that they also want to know other governments’
secrets. The NSA’s preferred cipher, then, would have a key short enough
that they can break it, with their tremendous resources, but also long enough
that other, less well-equipped spy agencies can’t.
The chosen length of 56 bits thus tells us something about the brute-force
cracking abilities of the NSA in the early 1970s, and by extension about
those of its rivals (both foreign and domestic).
However, the 1970s were a long time ago, as I’m increasingly aware, and as
an old cryptographer’s adage has it, “Attacks always get better; they never
get worse.”
Tripling down on DES
So, by the mid-1980s, concern about practical brute-force attacks on DES
had become widespread, and the quick-fix solution, for really important
secrets, was to use “Triple DES”. As the name suggests, it simply consists
of applying DES three times.
This doesn’t sound all that promising on the face of it: three weak
passwords are not much better than one, for example. It’s clearly a case of
kicking the can down the road, but governments have a bad habit of doing
just that, as you may have noticed.
Something new would soon be needed.
AES
By the late 1990s, brute-forcing a DES key within a few days was possible
on a machine costing a couple of hundred thousand dollars. This is cheap
enough, relatively speaking, to make any government nervous. Once DES
had fallen, indeed, could Triple DES be far behind? So proposals were
invited for a new standard, to be called the Advanced Encryption Standard
(“This time, we’ll get it right!”).
Rijndael
The cipher selected was one named Rijndael, after its inventors Vincent
Rijmen and Joan Daemen. While Rijndael can work with a range of block
sizes, the AES standard itself specifies a fixed block size of 128 bits (16
bytes). Similarly, while the underlying algorithm supports many different
key sizes, AES limits the selection to either 128, 192, or 256 bits.
We won’t bother with the shorter key sizes (nor should anyone else), so let’s
assume from now on that we’re talking only about AES-256, which is to
say Rijndael using 256-bit keys. Rijndael is a very strong and sophisticated
cipher, so using it with short keys would be silly, like owning a Ferrari but
driving it everywhere in first gear.
Now, you don’t actually need to know anything about how AES works in
order to use it, as long as you follow the usual good cryptographic practices
like choosing secure keys, and so on. But you’re here, and it’s interesting,
so let’s take a quick overview of the internal structure of AES, at a
functional level.
You already know how a block cipher works in general, because you’ve
implemented one. And AES works the same way: it splits the input
plaintext into equal-sized blocks, and then combines each block with the
key. The result is the ciphertext.
And, just as with any block cipher, AES can be used in a variety of
operating modes, some of which you’ll also recall from previous chapters:
ECB (bad), CBC (good), and so on.
We’ll talk more about operating modes for AES shortly, but let’s first see
how the key is combined with the plaintext, specifically. That’s the clever
bit, of course, so it might take a little explaining.
The starting grid
As we’ve seen, AES uses a block size of 16 bytes, which is shorter than we
used in the shift cipher. However, it’s a nice round number, or rather a nice
square number: 4 × 4.
That’s not a coincidence, because we’re going to arrange the 16 bytes of
block data in a 4 × 4 grid. Instead of writing them in rows, left to right,
we’ll write them top to bottom, in so-called column-major order, like this:
01  05  09  13   
02  06  10  14 
03  07  11  15 
04  08  12  16
Why use a grid, you ask? Well, it’s a bit like one of those puzzle games
where you have to shuffle the tiles around to form a sentence or reveal a
picture. We’re going to shuffle the rows and columns around in a similar
way to obscure the plaintext before encrypting it.
In our shift cipher, we encrypted each block using a single step: we
combined each plaintext byte with the corresponding key byte, in our case
by adding them together (mod 255). AES does something similar, but it
repeats the procedure many times, using multiple successive rounds.
Round and round
In AES-256, there are fourteen rounds, and before we even start encrypting
any blocks, we generate a separate 128-bit key for each of these rounds. All
these round keys are derived from the 256-bit cipher key itself, by a
complicated mathematical process we’ll glide smoothly over here.
Once we have the round keys, we can begin encrypting. In the first round,
we simply combine each plaintext byte with the corresponding byte of the
round key (let’s call this phase “AddRoundKey”).
Despite the name, rather than adding the two bytes together (as the shift
cipher does) AES uses the XOR operation. Just like addition, this is a fast,
simple, reversible way of combining two bytes. As a bonus, it’s very easily
implemented in hardware.
The output grid from the first round now becomes the input to the second
round, and so on. In this, and each of the subsequent rounds before the last,
we’ll again combine the data with the corresponding round key, but we also
perform three extra steps beforehand (I did warn you it was complicated).
Confusion and diffusion
In the first of these phases, “SubBytes”, we substitute every byte of the
block data with a different byte, obtained from a lookup table called the S-
box. This is just a fixed table with 256 entries, mapping every possible input
byte to some different output byte. All AES implementations use the same
S-box table, and it’s published, so the enemy has it too, but that’s okay. Its
purpose is just to make it harder to reverse-engineer the key from the
ciphertext.
The next phase is called “ShiftRows”: we shift the rows horizontally, like
the sliding tile puzzle. We leave the first row as it is, then we shift the
second row by one place to the left, the third row by two places, and the last
by three places. The overall effect of this is to make sure that each column
in the output contains a byte from each of the four input columns.
Why do this? Good ciphers obscure the plaintext in two main ways, known
in the trade as confusion and diffusion. Confusion involves changing the
value of each byte, as in the previous SubBytes phase, and we did that in
the shift cipher too.
Diffusion, on the other hand, involves moving those bytes around within the
block, which the shift cipher doesn’t do, but AES does. The point, again, is
to make it even harder for Eve to work backwards from the ciphertext to the
plaintext.
It’s just like the simple “rail fence” cipher we find in the KnowHow Book
of Spycraft. For example, we might arrange the phrase “ATTACK AT
DAWN” in a column-major grid as follows:
A C T W 
T K . N 
T . D . 
A A A .
The resulting ciphertext, reading off each row in turn, is “ACTW TK.N
T.D. AAA.”, and all the recipient has to do is write it out in a similar 4 × 4
grid to read off the plaintext in columns. Diffusion on its own, of course,
