Just like LenHash, the distribution of hashes produced by SumHash isn’t very
good. The sum of even quite long messages will still be a fairly low
number, so our hashes will end up all clustered together in one tiny corner
of the hashspace, like shy teenagers at a school dance.
Another problem is that small changes in the message only make small
changes in the hash. For example, if we replace an “A” in the message with
a “B”, the hash value will only change by one.
That’s not just a statistical problem: yet again, it makes it easier for Mallory
to construct a preimage with the desired hash. All they need to do is get
fairly close, and then make smaller and smaller tweaks to the input until
they have the exact hash they want.
By contrast, a good cryptographic hash function would exhibit what’s called
the avalanche effect. Tiny changes in the input should cause large changes
in the output, like a snowball rolling down a mountain and eventually
building up into an avalanche. SumHash certainly doesn’t have this property.
Real hash algorithms
We could imagine other simple-minded hash algorithms that are a little
better than the ones we’ve seen so far. For example, ProductHash would
distribute the hashes slightly more widely than SumHash, and small changes
in the message would perturb the hash more.
But there’s clearly room to do a lot better.
MD5
One much better hash algorithm is Message Digest Method 5 (MD5),
designed by cryptographer Ron Rivest (he’s the “R” in “RSA”, which we’ll
come to later).
In comparison with something like SumHash, MD5 is astoundingly
sophisticated. Even just to describe it in pseudocode takes something like
90 lines.
MD5 breaks the input message into blocks, and uses each block in turn to
modify the final hash value, by putting it through a tortuous sequence of
bit-twiddling operations. These are so complicated that for about five years,
MD5 was considered state-of-the-art and used widely in some very high-
stakes cryptography.
Time and technology moves on, though, and nowadays you can generate
MD5 collisions with a simple brute-force search in one or two seconds on
an ordinary desktop computer. That makes MD5 completely unsuitable for
any cryptographic purpose.
Thank u, next?
SHA-1
A much stronger replacement for MD5 was Secure Hash Algorithm 1
(SHA-1), which is even more complicated. And, again, for a while SHA-1
was considered secure enough for cryptographic work.
Pretty soon, though, researchers began to find more and more effective
attacks against SHA-1. A study in 2015 found that its strength had been
reduced to the point where only about $100,000 of cloud compute time was
needed to generate a collision. That sounds a lot, but it’s just pocket change
for a sufficiently motivated Mallory.
So, while SHA-1 is considerably better than MD5, it’s still not good enough
for cryptography today. Next please.
SHA-256
Secure Hash Algorithm 2 (SHA-2) is an extension and improvement of
SHA-1, and there are variants for different hash lengths, of which SHA-256
is the most popular.
This makes sense, since 256 bits is, as we’ve discussed, already long
enough to make brute-force attacks impractical. Fewer bits would be
insecure, but more would be unnecessary.
There are currently no known practical attacks on SHA-256 hashes. That is
not, of course, to say that none will be found: in fact, I guarantee that
sooner or later one will. But it’s secure today, and that’s all we can
reasonably hope for from any algorithm.
If you’re really worried, you can use SHA-3, which is newer and
fundamentally different from the SHA-1 and SHA-2 families. But SHA-256
is pretty much the de facto standard.
Go provides an implementation of SHA-256 in the crypto/sha256 package,
and it’s nice and easy to use. All you need to do to hash some data is:
Password hashing
Another common use for hashing is to provide a zero-knowledge proof. In
other words, to able to prove that we know a secret, but without revealing
the secret itself.
Zero-knowledge secret storage
Think about storing passwords, for example. Suppose we’re designing a
system, such as a bank, where the user—Alice—logs in by entering her
password. How does the system know that this is the same password she
originally set when she created her account?
The obvious idea—just storing the password somewhere—would be a fatal
mistake. If we stored passwords in clear, then the security of the whole
system would depend on the security of that password list.
Ideally, we’d put it on a USB key and bury it at a lonely crossroads at
midnight, or something, and never reveal its location. But clearly we can’t
do that: we need to consult the password list every time Alice logs in!
hash := sha256.Sum256(data)
There’s no point protecting secret information with a password which itself
then has to be kept secret. That’s just kicking the can down the road. Worse,
if Alice accesses the system over the network, then she has to send her
password over the network, where Eve can easily intercept and steal it. Bad
times.
So, here’s the problem. How can Alice prove to the bank—Bob—that she
knows the secret password, without sending Bob the password, and ideally
without Bob knowing the password either?
At first glance, it seems impossible.
Password hashing requirements
That’s where hashing comes in. Suppose when Alice signs up with Bob’s
bank, the system stores, not her password, but some hash of her password.
Then, some time later, when she comes to log in, the bank’s website can
prompt her for the password, compute its hash, and compare it against the
original stored hash.
This is an elegant solution, because Alice’s password never has to travel
over the unsecured network: not when she registers her account, and not
when she logs in. The hash can be computed and sent by code running in
Alice’s web browser. The bank never knows or stores her actual password,
only its hash.
So what hash algorithm should we use? Clearly we don’t want one with a
high collision rate. If Eve can choose a password whose hash collides with
Alice’s, then she could log in as Alice.
In fact, if Eve can gain access to the list of stored hashes, she can brute-
force a preimage for any user’s password. We need to make that as difficult
as possible.
Rainbow tables
Of course, we don’t want the password hash list to fall into the hands of
Eve, or other evil-doers, but we have to assume that’s going to happen, and
keep our users safe even if it does. So how would Eve’s brute-force attack
work, exactly?
One obvious thing she could do is just try hashing every English word in
the dictionary and see if it matches one of the hashes in the password list.
She only needs to generate this set of hashes once, and then she can use it as
a lookup table for any password list that she comes across.
Needless to say, this doesn’t sound like a good situation. In fact, it sounds
familiar, doesn’t it? It sounds just like the problem we identified with block
ciphers in ECB mode: that the same block always encrypts to the same
ciphertext.
In this case, the same password always hashes to the same digest, but Eve’s
exploit is identical. She just creates a “code book” of hashed passwords: all
the words in the dictionary, plus the usual bad passwords like pa55w0rd and
friends.
With this code book—colourfully known as a rainbow table—looking up a
stored hash and identifying the password that generated it is trivial.
Salting
We can solve this problem in the same way that we dealt with ECB. Instead
of just hashing the password on its own, we mix in some random, unique
data with it, and then hash it.
The result is a different hash value for every password. Indeed, even if two
users happen to have the same password by chance, their stored hash values
will be different.
As with a block cipher, it doesn’t actually matter how the additional data—
the salt—is generated. We have to include it with the stored hash anyway,
or the banking system wouldn’t be able to check Alice’s password when she
logs in.
“But what’s the point of that?” you might well ask. “If we’re giving Eve the
salt along with the hash, couldn’t she still carry out her dictionary attack by
hashing each word in conjunction with the salt?”
Yes, she could. But her job is made very much harder, because now she has
to re-hash every word in the dictionary for every password that she wants to
crack. Because the stored salt is different with every stored hash, her one-
size-fits-all rainbow table is rendered useless.
It’s certainly not impossible for her to do this, of course, but even with a
fast hash function, hashing is very much slower than just comparing pre-
computed values in a rainbow table.
Slow down, you move too fast
And that’s one final thing to note about password hashing that makes it
special. In almost all other applications of hashing, we want our hash
function to be as fast as possible. That is to say, we want it to run very
efficiently on general-purpose hardware, or to be easily accelerable by
special-purpose hardware, such as GPUs.
With passwords, on the other hand, we want the hashing process to be as
slow as possible! That sounds strange, but remember, we only need to
legitimately hash the password once a day or so, when Alice logs in.
Alice won’t notice or mind a delay of a few milliseconds in checking her
password. Only bad actors such as Eve need to hash passwords very
quickly, in vast numbers.
So we want a hash function that is relatively slow, inefficient, expensive, or
a combination of all three. SHA-256 wouldn’t be a good choice in this case,
because it’s extremely fast and efficient, and it’s easy to obtain special-
purpose hardware for computing it even faster. Indeed, there are strong
financial incentives for this, as we’ll see in the next chapter.
Instead, there are dedicated password hashing algorithms such as bcrypt and
scrypt that make much better choices for storing hashed passwords securely.
We needn’t say much more about them here, but it’s good to know they
exist.
16. Coins
I speak the pass-word primeval, I give the sign of democracy
By God! I will accept nothing which all cannot have their counterpart
of on the same terms.
—Walt Whitman, “Song of Myself”
Another important application of hashing is in digital ledgers, or
blockchains, such as Bitcoin. As we saw in a previous chapter, a cipher
operating in CBC mode creates a blockchain, in a sense. The term
“blockchain”, though, is usually used in the context of a cryptocurrency.
Cryptocurrency
Suppose Bob wants to branch out beyond traditional banking (Alice was his
only customer anyway), and create his own secure digital currency:
“Bobcoin”, perhaps. How could he do that?
Let there be “Bobcoin”
The simplest way would just be to declare to the world that Bobcoin is now
a thing, and invite members of the public to exchange their dollars or
pounds for the equivalent amount of Bobcoin.
There’s nothing to stop anyone creating their own fiat currency (Latin for
“make it so”) in this way, and of course that’s how all currencies got started.
Traditionally, the exchange is done by a central bank—in this case, the
Bank of Bob—which determines the rate of conversion. For example, Bob
might declare that one Bobcoin is convertible to one US dollar. Alice pays
in $100 and Bob credits her with a balance of 100 Bobcoin.
So far, so good, but what can Alice do with this balance?
Well, she can buy a pizza (from Pat, let’s say). No physical tokens, such as
banknotes, need to change hands. Alice simply uses Bob’s banking system
to transfer, as it might be, ten Bobcoin from her account to Pat’s. Pat checks
her own balance, sees that the ten Bobcoin has been added to it, and she
sends the pizza right along to Alice’s house.
Then maybe Pat uses the Bobcoin she just earned to buy a really cute torque
wrench she’s had her eye on. And so forth. Round and round the Bobcoin
goes: where it stops, nobody knows.
Or rather, Bob knows, because he keeps careful track of everyone’s balance.
If Pat decides that she likes the reassuring feel of crisp, green paper (who
doesn’t?) she simply asks Bob to convert her ten Bobcoin into $10, and then
withdraws it from a nearby ATM.
The problem of trust
So far, so good, but we don’t really need a blockchain for this. Bob can just
maintain a record of all the transactions and balances in the usual way.
But, if you think about it, it’s difficult for Bobcoin to scale up. If it really
took off and everyone in the world started using Bobcoin for every online
transaction, that would place a huge load on Bob’s servers.
Worse, it makes Bob a single point of failure for the global financial
system. If Bob’s electricity goes out, commerce everywhere is brought to a
shuddering halt. That would be bad, but even if Bob installs a UPS, which
he should, there’s another problem. Why should everyone trust Bob?
They shouldn’t. Bob’s a good guy, I’m sure, but who’s to say that the
prospect of stealing literally all the Bobcoin in the world wouldn’t turn even
Bob’s head? He could be threatened or blackmailed into handing over the
keys to the digital vault, or he might just lose them by accident.
Even if Bob is incorruptible and careful, he can’t know for sure that
someone hasn’t sneaked into his system and left themselves a little back
door, and nor can anyone else. As long as all the transactions are kept
private, no one can see if anything nefarious is going on.
So the slightly surprising solution is for Bob to make them all public. He
can take the digital ledger—the ongoing record of all Bobcoin transactions
—and put it on a public file server for all to see.
Now if Bob, or anyone else, steals money, he can’t conceal those
transactions: they’re a matter of public record, literally.
A distributed digital ledger
That removes the Bank of Bob as a single point of failure, but now we have
a new one: the public ledger server. No problem: we’ll distribute copies of
the ledger all over the place–perhaps to every computer in the world that
uses Bobcoin for transactions.
Cool. But what happens when a new transaction needs to be recorded?
Won’t the ledgers now be out of sync?
Yes, but only temporarily. Anyone making a transaction can send out a
message about it on the Bobcoin network. All nodes on the network can
listen for messages about new transactions, and use them to update their
own local copy of the ledger.
