In the next chapter, we’ll look at some practical ways in which chaotic
physical processes can be used as a source of entropy. One fun, if slightly
impractical way, though, is to use a lava lamp, as seen in the photo at the
beginning of this chapter.
Cloudflare’s office in San Francisco features a “Wall of Entropy”, using
about 100 lava lamps. A digital camera takes a picture of the lamps at
intervals, and the data from these pixels is used as input entropy for
generating cryptographic keys. So, while the wall of lava lamps makes a
nice display for visitors, it’s not just a conversation piece.
A little entropy goes a long way
The ability to generate random numbers is important for cryptography, as
we’ve seen, but it’s also useful in other spheres of life. For example, poker
players need to be able to randomise their behaviour, to avoid their
opponents learning too much about their play.
Poker, like cryptography, is a game of information. The more regular and
predictable your play, the easier it is for opponents to beat you.
To inject randomness into their game, some players use their analogue
wristwatches as a simple random generator. For example, if the second hand
is between 0 and 30, they’ll raise on a middling hand, and if it’s between 30
and 60, they’ll call.
This wouldn’t work in every situation, of course: if you needed to generate
random numbers more than about once a minute, the stream of “bits” would
start to show obvious regularities. And if your opponents knew your exact
scheme, they could use their own watches to predict what you’ll do. But
even a little randomness—even a small amount of entropy—can give you
an important edge.
Being unpredictable
The same idea applies to games like “rock, paper, scissors”. Although it
doesn’t seem like it, this is very much a game of skill. It takes skill to be
able to avoid predictability in your moves, and to spot regularities in your
opponent’s.
Being unpredictable, indeed, is the hard part: our little meat brains just
aren’t wired for it. No matter how hard you try, your attempts to generate
entropy won’t be very successful. Without realising it, you’ll fall into
relatively predictable patterns, and a more experienced player will easily
beat you.
LECTER: Clarice, doesn’t this random scattering of sites seem
desperately random, like the elaborations of a bad liar?
—“The Silence of the Lambs”
The more we try to be random, the more we give ourselves away. Being
able to produce sufficiently random numbers, then, is a key part of
cryptography, and we’ll explore this further in the next chapter.
13. Randomness
The meat of the book is the “Table of Random Digits”… The table
goes on for 400 pages and, except for a particularly racy section on
page 283 which reads “69696,” makes for a boring read.
—Bruce Schneier, “Applied Cryptography”
In the previous chapter we saw that choosing good cryptographic keys—or
making any other kind of choice that opponents mustn’t be able to predict—
depends on our ability to behave randomly. Or, at least, to behave in a way
that looks random enough to fool those who are trying to out-guess us, as in
games such as poker and rock-paper-scissors.
Pseudo-random generation
Computer games also often need random-looking behaviour, to make the
player’s experience a little different each time. But, like the Mandelbrot set,
random number generators for games only need to appear complex. In
practice, for speed and ease of implementation, they can be very simple
indeed.
Randomness in games
Games like Elite need a steady stream of random numbers. They are
used all over the place to add an element of chance to gameplay,
whether it’s in the main flight loop when deciding whether or not to
spawn an angry Thargoid in the depths of space, or on arrival in a
new system where the market prices have a random element mixed into
the procedural generation, so they are never exactly the same.
—Mark Moxon, “Generating Random Numbers: Elite on the BBC
Micro”
The legendary space game Elite was first implemented on the BBC Micro, a
decent home computer in 1984, but a tiny machine by today’s standards. It
had a single 8-bit CPU clocked at 2MHz, and 32K of memory. Into this, the
authors squeezed a real-time 3D space combat game with dozens of ship
types, across eight galaxies containing over two thousand unique star
systems to explore.
The Fibonacci sequence
This masterpiece of elegance and efficiency required many clever tricks to
fit it into the BBC’s tiny memory, and one of them was an ingenious little
“random” number generator in just 12 machine instructions.
The idea is based on the Fibonacci sequence, which we’ve met already as
one of our “regular” sequences:
0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8...
Each number, as I’m sure you’ve spotted, is the sum of the previous two.
We need two “seed” numbers to start things off, so the actual sequence
produced depends on which two numbers you pick.
If you pick zero and one, you get the familiar sequence above. But different
seeds will give us a different sequence. For example, using seeds of 12 and
43, we get:
12, 43, 55, 98, 153, 251, 404...
This looks a bit random-ish, except that the numbers are always increasing.
We can solve that quite easily using our old friend modular reduction. For
example, let’s take the residue of each number mod 10 (or, in plainer
language, take its last digit):
2, 3, 5, 8, 3, 1, 4...
A simple random generator
This is already perfectly good enough for a simple game like “guess the
number I’m thinking of between 0 and 9”. If Alice is playing this game with
Eve, it doesn’t matter if Eve knows that Alice is using the Fibonacci
sequence, because she’s still missing one crucial piece of information: the
seeds that Alice chose.
Alice can get these two numbers, as I did, by looking at the clock, or
throwing dice, or using any other decent source of randomness. The point is
that she doesn’t have to keep doing that: once she’s generated the seeds, she
can just use a very simple algorithm (addition mod N) to produce as long a
random-looking sequence as she wants.
A Fibonacci generator in Go
Here’s a Go program that implements this trick:
package main
import (
    "fmt"
    "time"
)
var (
    seed1 = 0
    seed2 = 1
)
(Listing random/1)
Each call to seq generates the next number in the sequence, starting from
the two configured seeds. And here’s the output:
1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 3, 1, 4...
Repeatability
We have a random-seeming sequence, even though it’s generated by what’s
clearly a deterministic program: every time we run it, we’ll see the exact
same numbers. While this is a disadvantage in cryptography (because if Eve
gets hold of Alice’s key-generating program, she’ll be able to generate the
same keys), such repeatability can be desirable in games.
For example, when you destroy an enemy ship in Elite, the random
generator is used to draw the explosion particles in different locations on
the screen. For the next frame of the animation, those same particles must
be overdrawn, to erase them.
func main() {
    for range time.Tick(time.Second) {
        number := seq()
        fmt.Print(number, ", ")
    }
}
func seq() int {
    tmp := seed1 + seed2
    seed1 = seed2
    seed2 = tmp
    return tmp % 10
}
But storing and retrieving the co-ordinates of every particle would take up
too much memory, so instead the game simply re-runs the random generator
with the same seeds, thus producing the same co-ordinates. The results look
random enough to satisfy players, but the repeatability gives good graphical
performance.
Seeding the RNG
Even in a game, though, it might start to become a bit obvious if the seeds
were always the same every time you played it. The same enemy would
appear at the same point, attack at the same moment, and so on. Elite solves
this by grabbing information from the gameplay to seed its random
generator (for example, the current screen x-co-ordinate of the nearest
planet).
We could use something like the poker player’s wristwatch trick to achieve
the same goal. For example, suppose that when the program starts, it
chooses initial values for the two seeds based on the current time. We could
just take the current “seconds” value of the system time, like this:
(Listing random/2)
Even though these are overwhelmingly likely to be the same value, it
doesn’t matter. The sequence produced is fine:
4, 1, 5, 6, 1, 7, 8, 5, 3, 8...
And we’ll run it again to check that we get something different:
2, 3, 5, 8, 3, 1, 4, 5, 9, 4
Security problems
var (
    seed1 = time.Now().Second()
    seed2 = time.Now().Second()
)
This is certainly good enough for games, and other non-cryptographic
applications. Indeed, it’s more or less the way that Go’s standard math/rand
package generates “random” numbers: a deterministic algorithm, seeded
with the current time.
Algorithms like this, that produce apparently random results but are
nonetheless deterministic, are known as pseudo-random number generators
(PRNGs). The “pseudo” (Greek for “false”) is to remind us that such
programs can’t be used for cryptography, because they produce fatally
insecure keys, and we’ll very soon find out why.
Periodicity
Let’s see what effect a different choice of seeds has on our program’s
output:
Here’s the result:
0, 5, 5, 0, 5, 5, 0, 5, 5...
Oh dear. This doesn’t look nearly so good. We’ve stumbled upon one of the
disadvantages of PRNGs: periodicity. In other words, the sequence
eventually repeats. If you’re unlucky with your choice of seeds, as we were,
then the algorithm’s period can be very short.
No matter how carefully the seeds are chosen, though, any deterministic
sequence will eventually repeat, and that’s a fatal flaw of PRNGs when
applied to cryptography. Eve doesn’t even have to know what the algorithm
is, only that if she waits long enough, the digits of Alice’s key will cycle
back round to where they began.
Distribution
var (
    seed1 = 5
    seed2 = 5
)
So that’s one important reason why the output of deterministic PRNGs like 
math/rand isn’t really random: it’s repetitive. Another problem is the
statistics of such sequences. For example, let’s see what happens if we
choose the seeds 2 and 4 for our program:
6, 0, 6, 6, 2, 8, 0, 8, 8, 6, 4
It’s clear that we’ll never get any odd numbers in this sequence. Adding
together two even numbers can only ever produce an even result. So, while
the program hasn’t yet got trapped in an obvious short cycle, it is
condemned to wander forever among the even digits, never escaping them.
An apparently random sequence that included no odd numbers wouldn’t
look very random to most of us. And, thinking about it, that’s another
quality we intuitively ascribe to random numbers: uniformity.
Uniformity
In other words, if we generate 1,000 random digits, we expect that 0 will
occur roughly as often as 9, or any other particular value. It would be weird,
by contrast, if we saw some specific digit occurring a lot more often than
any other, or if even numbers occurred more often than odd ones.
Similarly, a fair coin should produce roughly equal numbers of heads and
tails. Of course, over very short runs, we wouldn’t be surprised to see a few
more of one outcome than the other. But if we toss the coin a few hundred
or a few thousand times, the results should be extremely close to 50%
heads, 50% tails.
That’s not true of our Fibonacci-based generator. We would like it to
produce 50% odd digits, 50% evens, but it certainly doesn’t do that when
given even seeds. If we’re planning to seed it using something arbitrary like
the current time, this would be a disaster waiting to happen.
“Secure enough” random generators
So how do secure random number generators work, then? We know they
exist (at least, for some value of “secure”) because every time you browse a
website or make a credit card transaction online, your communication with
the server is encrypted using some randomly-generated key. That can’t be
produced by a simple deterministic PRNG like the one in our example, or
you’d soon find your bank account empty.
Environmental noise
The answer is that the random generator does something equivalent to
tossing a coin, which as we discussed earlier is so sensitively dependent on
initial conditions as to make it impractical for Eve to predict the outcome.
And there are many sources of such data in a computer: for example, you
could use the intervals between keystrokes or mouse movements, or the
differing access times of blocks read from disk.
Indeed, randomness becomes just one of the many useful resources that
operating systems provide to applications. “Environmental noise” sources
such as keystrokes or network packets help to seed the system randomness
pool, which uses a high-quality PRNG to maintain a sort of entropy
reservoir. Programs that need random bits (for example, cryptographic key
generators) can simply read as many as they need from the pool.
The system entropy pool
For example, suppose we need to generate a 256-bit key, so we require 256
bits of entropy. On macOS or Linux, we can get them on the command line
by reading directly from the /dev/random device, which is connected to the
system entropy pool:
0000000 d0 05 b7 68 e5 f7 83 59 bd 2f de 89 c4 8a 98 68 
0000010 c6 f0 a8 6f 6f eb 38 a1 9e b7 9c 23 12 d7 8c a9
Similarly, when we use Go’s crypto/rand package to generate secure
random data, it comes ultimately from this system pool. So, is this good
hexdump -n 32 /dev/random
