... 
BenchmarkCrack-8             192           6193617 ns/op
That’s roughly 6 microseconds, or 253 times longer than last time, which
isn’t too far off our extrapolated guess. So finding four bytes should take
about 256 times longer again: 1.6 billion nanoseconds, or about a second
and a half.
Here’s the ciphertext:
And here’s the result:
... 
BenchmarkCrack-8               1        1593668500 ns/op
Not bad! Very close to our predicted figure. It looks like we have a
relatively stable way to predict key cracking times. Let’s use it to estimate
the time to find a 16-byte key, for example.
Ballparking a realistic crack time
That’s 12 bytes longer than the key we just cracked, so, since each
additional byte multiplies the crack time by 256, we need to multiply our
reference time by 25612. That’s an awfully big number:
18,446,744,070,000,000,000
Well, that’s roughly how many seconds it will take to crack a 16-byte key.
Dividing into that to get the time in years gives us something like 584
trillion years.
go test -bench .
ciphertext := []byte("Uijt message is exactly 32 bytes")
go test -bench .
That’s already a little longer than we’re probably prepared to wait for a test
to run, but remember it gives us only 16 bytes. Cracking the full 32-byte
key would take another 25616 times longer. Check my math, but that works
out to many trillion quadrillion times the current age of the universe.
Yeah, no. We might have been too ambitious with this test. Bear in mind
we’re trying to find a known key, and one that’s relatively close to the
beginning of the keyspace. Even that would take a brain-meltingly long
time, we find.
It does give us a nice warm feeling of security about the keyspace of our
256-bit keys, which is so staggeringly gigantic that it effectively renders
brute-forcing a waste of time. Instead, it would always be more efficient for
Eve to spend, say, the first hundred million years or so closely studying the
cipher scheme, looking for flaws that could save her a billion years of key-
guessing.
And it makes sense that if Eve can’t crack our keys, in practice, within a
reasonable time, then neither can we do so in a test. So how can we verify
that the cracking code actually works, without waiting for it to find real
keys?
A test we might live to see pass
Well, on reflection, we really don’t need to test the Crack function against a
key that takes so long to reach by sequential enumeration. We only need to
know two things: first, that it will correctly enumerate every key, given
enough time, and second, that when it finds the correct key, it will stop.
Fortunately, we know the order in which Crack will guess keys, so we can
save some testing time by deliberately choosing a key which occurs fairly
early in that sequence. For example, “01 01 01 00…” has its first three
bytes set to 1, and the rest are zeroes.
We already know from our benchmarking that we can find this key within
about 6 microseconds, and that sounds fine. We never want our test suite as
a whole to take more than a handful of seconds to run, or we simply
wouldn’t bother running it very often.
So let’s update the test for Crack to give it an input enciphered with this
relatively “easy” key:
We already know from our benchmarking that this takes about 6
microseconds (at least on my machine; it’s probably faster on yours).
Updating the crack tool
We’re back to all passing tests, which means we have a working Crack
function. Next, let’s update our crack command-line tool to take account of
the new cipher mode and padding changes.
GOAL: Update crack to use NewDecrypter.
Putting it all together
HINT: It’s been a while since we looked at the crack tool, but it doesn’t
really need that many changes. We can think of it as being essentially the
same as decipher, with the difference that instead of taking the key as a
command-line argument, we call Crack to guess it.
func TestCrack(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    plaintext := []byte("This message is exactly 32 bytes")
    ciphertext := []byte("Uijs message is exactly 32 bytes")
    want := append([]byte{1, 1, 1}, bytes.Repeat([]byte{0}, 29)...)
    got, err := shift.Crack(ciphertext, plaintext)
    if err != nil {
        t.Fatal(err)
    }
    if !bytes.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Fatalf("want %x, got %x", want, got)
    }
}
So you can put this together by taking the existing first part of crack
(guessing the key), and the second part of decipher (deciphering the
message, given the key). See what you can do!
SOLUTION: Here’s a version that should do the job:
func main() {
    crib := flag.String("crib", "", "crib text")
    flag.Parse()
    if *crib == "" {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, "Please specify a crib text with -c
        os.Exit(1)
    }
    ciphertext, err := io.ReadAll(os.Stdin)
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
        os.Exit(1)
    }
    key, err := shift.Crack(ciphertext, []byte(*crib))
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
        os.Exit(1)
    }
    block, err := shift.NewCipher(key)
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
        os.Exit(1)
    }
    mode := shift.NewDecrypter(block)
    plaintext := make([]byte, len(ciphertext))
    mode.CryptBlocks(plaintext, ciphertext)
    plaintext = shift.Unpad(plaintext, mode.BlockSize())
    os.Stdout.Write(plaintext)
}
Will it crack?
If this works, we should be able to encipher our sample text with the key 01 
01 01 00..., let’s say, and fairly quickly recover it with crack. Here goes:
Let’s check the ciphertext:
Uif tiger appears at its own plebtvre. When we become very silenu 
...
Okay, not the most heavily-obscured message, but we’re deliberately using
a super-weak key, because we don’t have a quadrillion years to wait around
for the next command to run:
The tiger appears at its own pleasure. When we become very silent 
...
Great. Mischief managed!
Parallelisation
During our discussions of brute-force cipher cracking, it might have
occurred to you to ask “Couldn’t we use parallel processing here?” In other
words, if we can crack a given key in a given time with a single CPU core,
wouldn’t we be able to crack it faster using multiple cores?
}
go run ./cmd/encipher -key \
  0101010000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 
  < tiger.txt >enciphered.bin
go run ./cmd/crack -crib The <enciphered.bin
Certainly we would. As we saw in an earlier chapter, the hard limit on Eve’s
ability to crack keys is not really time, but energy. Cracking a given key
requires, on average, a fixed amount of computation, and thus energy. If she
throws more hardware at the problem, she just burns that energy faster. Her
electricity bill, as we’ve seen, will work out the same either way.
On the other hand, we have to assume that Eve has the means to put a lot of
energy into this cracking operation. (Maybe she is the electricity company.
I’ve always thought there was something shady about them.)
There are physical limits to how fast computation can happen, though, even
with parallel processing. Just for fun, let’s take a moment to look at these.
Big computers are too slow
Suppose Eve wants to apply N cores to the task of cracking Alice’s key.
Since each core occupies some amount of space, the average distance
between cores increases with N. Cores can’t communicate with each other
faster than the speed of light, and some amount of inter-core communication
is required even for parallel processing.
This implies that there’s some upper limit for N, above which Eve’s galactic
megacomputer actually gets slower, not faster. The reason is that there are
so many cores that it takes too long for them to talk to each other.
Dense computers become black holes
“No problem,” says Eve, “I’ll just make the cores smaller, or more
efficient.” By doing more computation in a given volume of space, she can
reduce the light-travel time between cores. But, again, there’s a limit to this.
The more mass or energy you try to squash into a small space, the more
strongly it curves the fabric of spacetime, according to Einstein’s equations
of general relativity.
When the computer (or anything else) reaches a certain critical density, the
spacetime in its vicinity becomes so strongly curved that nothing can escape
it: no matter, no light, and no useful information. In other words, Eve has
created a new black hole.
This would be unfortunate. Yes, Eve can build an arbitrarily powerful
computer if she wants to, and use it to crack Alice’s key in an arbitrarily
short time. But she can never see the answer! Or, at least, she can see it by
entering the black hole herself, but then it’s no use to her, since she can
never again interact with the rest of the universe, including Alice.
So physics gets Eve both coming and going. If her computer is too big, it’s
slow, because its internal bandwith is limited by the speed of light. If the
computer is too small, it becomes permanently sealed off from the universe
inside a black hole, so its results are inaccessible.
Parallel cracking is still useful
These hard limits on key-cracking are unlikely to affect any Earthly Eve, of
course, at least for some centuries to come. Returning to the realm of the
practical, though, wouldn’t throwing at least a few extra computers at the
problem help Eve a lot? It seems like it should:
A brute-force attack is tailor-made for parallel processors.
—Bruce Schneier, “Applied Cryptography”
Indeed, if Alice uses short keys, Eve can crack them very quickly, as we’ve
done ourselves, and we could have cracked them in even less time by
making our Crack function concurrent. For example, if we have N cores
available, we can divide the search space into N pieces and assign each one
to a goroutine running Crack in parallel.
But we won’t implement it here
So, is it worth us modifying Crack to work in parallel? Not really. As we’ve
discussed in previous chapters, Alice can increase the key-cracking time a
lot faster by adding more key bits than Eve can decrease it by adding more
cores. Eve would be bringing a linear knife to an exponential gunfight, so to
speak.
And, as we’ve also found by experiment, the expected time to crack strong
keys (256 bits or longer) is so vast that, really, dividing it by 8 doesn’t make
much difference. Dividing it by any feasible number of cores doesn’t make
enough impact to be worthwhile.
If Eve, even by commandeering every computer on Earth, can’t reduce the
expected crack time of Alice’s key to less than a hundred trillion years, then
what’s the point, really? It’s hard to imagine any secret information that
would still be valuable in even a hundred years, never mind a hundred
trillion.
Strong keys can’t be cracked
Of course, people do use weak keys, through accident, laziness, or
ignorance, and Eve will crack them as fast as she possibly can, in parallel,
with the computing resources she has. But that’s of limited interest to us,
since we won’t be using weak keys. We know how to make our keys so
strong that attempting to brute-force them is a waste of time.
Perhaps a good way to make the point would be that strong keys take so
long to crack that parallel processing doesn’t help, while weak keys can
usually be cracked so quickly that parallel processing isn’t necessary. Either
way, we needn’t worry about it for our cipher system.
If you’d like to try writing a parallel version of Crack, though, just for fun,
of course you’re very welcome to have a go. For now, let’s move on to
thinking about another thing that’s essential to strong keys: entropy.
12. Entropy
Random numbers should not be generated with a method chosen at
random.
—Donald Knuth, “The Art of Computer Programming, Vol 2:
Seminumerical Algorithms”
(photo by Dean Hochman, licensed under Creative Commons)
So now we know a bit about strong keys. During our various exciting
adventures in keyspace, we’ve learned how the size of a key affects the
security of the messages it enciphers.
And we also learned that size isn’t everything. Or rather, it’s not just the
length of the key that’s important, but how many possible keys there are.
Let’s talk a little more about that.
Information
In an earlier chapter we saw that any key can, in principle, be generated by
some repeated process with a binary outcome: for example, tossing a coin.
This in turn implies that any key can be represented by a binary number:
that is, a string of bits. Each bit could be thought of as the result of a coin-
toss: 0 or 1, heads or tails.
But we also know that not all possible bit-strings make equally good
encryption keys. A key of all zeroes results in no encryption at all, for
example, and a key that’s mostly zeroes doesn’t encrypt the plaintext very
much.
A key of all ones would be equally ineffective, and so would any key with
an obvious, predictable pattern in its bits. For example, 0101...
So there’s something else that makes a key more or less secure, beyond its
basic information content given by the number of bits. We could think of
this extra factor as how much new information it contains. Equivalently, we
could describe it as how much Eve doesn’t already know about the key.
Entropy: a measure of our ignorance
This quantity is sometimes referred to as entropy, which is a very good
word to drop into conversation if you want to sound knowledgeable.
Indeed, it’s one of those words that means lots of different things to
different people. Most of them would agree, though, that it has something to
do with information, particularly unknown information.
In the context of cryptography, we can be quite exact about what we mean
by the “entropy” of a given key or message. It’s the minimum number of
bits required to write down the information it contains.
Mathematically:
In general, the entropy of a message measured in bits is log2N, in
which N is the number of possible meanings. This assumes that each
meaning is equally likely.
—Bruce Schneier, “Applied Cryptography”
