A naïve algorithm
Implementing LenHash
Problems with LenHash
Preimage attacks
A slight improvement
Implementing SumHash
Testing SumHash
A preimage attack on SumHash
The avalanche effect
Real hash algorithms
MD5
SHA-1
SHA-256
Password hashing
Zero-knowledge secret storage
Password hashing requirements
Rainbow tables
Salting
Slow down, you move too fast
16. Coins
Cryptocurrency
Let there be “Bobcoin”
The problem of trust
A distributed digital ledger
Security
The double-spending problem
Ordering transactions
The blockchain
Doomed stubs
Integrity
Consensus
Proof of work
Up in smoke
Proof of stake
17. Authentication
Message integrity
Hash preimage attacks
Chosen ciphertext attacks
MAC
Length extension attacks
HMAC
Key exchange
The problem
Key splitting
Asymmetric encryption
Public and private keys
The Diffie-Hellman-Merkle protocol
A one-way function for key exchange
A DHM worked example
The reveal
Public-key cryptography
RSA
Signing
Authentication
Verification
The chain of trust
18. Cryptography
A little history
The origins of DES
Tripling down on DES
AES
Rijndael
The starting grid
Round and round
Confusion and diffusion
Putting it all together
Implementing AES
Getting ready to rumble
Ding ding, round one
The diffusion loop
The last round
AES encryption in practice
Enciphering with AES-CBC
Updating encipher and decipher
Encryption plus authentication
Enciphering with AES-GCM
The final final version
Weaknesses
Implementation fails
Mashing the keys
Tomorrow
The future is quantum
Quantum parallelism
The catch
Why your computer isn’t quantum… yet
Post-quantum cryptography
Afterword
About this book
Who wrote this?
Feedback
Get my free newsletter
Free updates to future editions
The Deeper Love of Go
The Power of Go: Tools
Further reading
Credits
Acknowledgements
Praise for Explore Go:
Cryptography
I laughed, I learned. It’s a great book that manages to explain
complicated ideas in really simple, straightforward language.
—Dian Amencourt
One of the most accessible and even fun books about cryptography
I’ve ever read. John writes vividly, with many a neat turn of phrase,
and the text is full of wit and humour.
—Kurtis Connor
This is a remarkable book, practically fizzing with enthusiasm for its
subject. It whisks you through the worlds of cryptography,
mathematics, physics, and computer science, and shows you that
they’re all connected in surprising and thought-provoking ways.
Highly enjoyable.
—Cuong Quoc
As a software engineer who works on a security product (I won’t say
which one), I’ve always felt like a bit of an imposter when it comes to
cryptography: I hoped no one would ever ask me how a cipher
actually works. After reading this book, I now feel a lot more
confident. Thanks, John!
—Yuliana M
So friendly and easy to read. This has really unlocked a few things for
me. I can’t recommend this book highly enough!
—Joseph Adewale
John has a knack of writing almost luminously clear explanations that
stick in your mind long after finishing the book.
—Patrick Devlin
Introduction
This book is all about keeping secrets. It shows you how to set up
secret meeting places and a secret post office, and how to disguise
your messages and maps. It shows you lots of secret codes and signals.
—Falcon Travis and Judy Hindley, “The KnowHow Book of
Spycraft”, 1975
First, why should you even read a book about cryptography? It’s a valid
question.
Cryptography
When I was a kid, one of my favourite books (and there were many) was
The KnowHow Book of Spycraft, which, as you might have gathered from
the quotation above, is all about secret messages.
Kids love secret messages and spies, of course, along with dinosaurs, trains,
and poop. But our obsessive interest in these subjects tends to fade as we
grow older (except for dinosaurs, perhaps). So why, assuming you didn’t
grow up to become a spy yourself, is it worth your while to read this book,
which is also all about secret messages?
Why learn about cryptography?
Well, firstly, the subject is cool and interesting. I thought so when I was
seven years old, evidently, and I still think so now, when I’m just a little
older. It’s okay to study and learn about things just because they’re
interesting, even if they don’t really have any practical value. That’s
something kids don’t need telling, but many adults have forgotten, sadly
enough.
Actually, though, cryptography is rather important, and we rely on it every
day of our lives, even though we might not be aware of it. The credit card
or payment service you used to buy this book uses cryptographic algorithms
and protocols to keep your transactions secure (we hope). The messages,
photos, and videos that you exchange with friends, family, and co-workers
are encrypted so that they can’t fall into the wrong hands (we better hope).
And so on.
If you use cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, well, guess what? It’s not
called “crypto” for nothing. And it’s not just criminals and fraudsters who
value the security and anonymity that comes from strong, modern
cryptography: we all do. Your computer, your phone, your car—heck,
probably even your fridge—contain hardware and software dedicated to
cryptography. The internet relies on it. The banking system depends on it.
Basically, modern life is more or less built on cryptography. Isn’t it a bit
weird that most of us don’t really know the first thing about it? Maybe it’s
time we did.
Before we start, though, please take a moment to subscribe to my newsletter
—it’s free, and it’s also the best way for you to stay up to date with my
latest books, tutorials, and blog posts:
https://bitfieldconsulting.com/subscribe
What do you need to know?
Let’s start with what you don’t need to know. You don’t need to be able to
design your own ciphers or cryptographic protocols. In fact, you shouldn’t
do that at all unless you’re a real expert, and probably not even then.
Some of the smartest people who ever lived have designed cipher systems
that turned out later to be insecure, in many cases woefully so. Even if
you’re one of those people (and you did buy this book, after all), you’re
much better off just using one of the modern cryptographic schemes in
which no vulnerabilities have yet been found.
Even using a genuinely secure cipher, though, it’s still possible that you (or
I) might make mistakes when incorporating it into software (indeed, it’s
highly likely: this happens all the time). It’s incredibly easy to make small
errors or omissions that render the resulting program dangerously insecure
for its users: even worse, you (and they) might never know until it’s too
late.
If you’re wise, then, you won’t try to write your own cryptography software
either. Just use existing programs that have been written and debugged by
lots of smart people and tested by many more.
To use cryptography securely, though, even something as simple as a
password, you do need to know something about what makes things secure,
or not. We can probably recognise a weak password when we see one
(especially if it’s “password”), but what makes a strong password strong,
and why? Similarly, we’re aware that some ciphers are weak and others are
strong, but why?
The best way to answer that question, ironically enough, is to write your
own cryptography software, and that’s what we’re going to do together in
this book. I want to emphasise, though, that we’ll be doing this purely for
fun and learning purposes. You shouldn’t use any of the software we build
here to protect actual secrets (at least, not until we get to the last chapter).
Modern cryptography is extremely sophisticated, and if I tried to just
explain that stuff right away it would probably kill both of us. Instead, we’ll
work up to it, starting with something very simple, and gradually
incorporating some of the many improvements in ciphers over the last two
thousand years or so.
In the beginning, we’ll sweat the details and look at every nut and bolt,
while it’s still easy to do so. As things get more complicated and closer to
the modern state of the art, there’ll be a bit less detail and a bit more hand-
waving, but that’s okay. You’ll still learn everything you want to know (and,
indeed, should know), as a software engineer who occasionally has to dip a
toe into cryptographic waters.
About the book
This book will explain the fundamental principles of ciphers, by introducing
you to the simplest cipher scheme imaginable. You’ll learn how it works,
implement it in Go, and then you’ll find out why it won’t protect your
secrets from anybody who really wants to know them (except perhaps your
kid sister).
What you’ll learn
You’ll learn about cipher keys: how they work, what makes them weak or
strong, how to generate them, and how to defeat them. You’ll learn how to
choose good passwords, and how to store and retrieve them securely, and
you’ll learn the “10 Do’s and 500 Don’ts” of writing software applications
that handle passwords.
In the book, we’ll gradually improve the security and usability of our toy
cipher scheme, adding better keys, blocks, operating modes, hashing,
authentication, and so on. We’ll talk about predictability and randomness,
message digests, cryptocurrency, and all sorts of other stuff that’s fun and
interesting (at least, if you’re the kind of person who likes secret codes and
dinosaurs).
There’ll necessarily be a little bit of math. Now, computer programmers are
often somewhat mathematically inclined, but many aren’t, and that’s okay.
If you’re one of the latter, don’t worry. We will come across a few equations
and formulas, but if they just look like illegible squiggles to you, it doesn’t
matter. You will certainly understand the general principles involved, and
that’s just fine.
(If you are a math whiz, you’ll probably realise pretty soon that I am not.
Please email me with a list of all the mistakes you find in the book: I always
enjoy hearing from readers.)
How to use this book
Throughout this book we’ll be working together to develop some
cryptographic tools and packages in Go. There are dozens of challenges for
you to solve throughout the book, each designed to help you test your
understanding of the concepts you’ve just learned.
If you get stuck on any of these, or just want to check your results, each
challenge is accompanied by hints, and a complete sample solution,
including tests. These are linked in the text, and you can also find them on
GitHub here:
https://github.com/bitfield/eg-crypto
You’ll need to install Go on your computer, if you don’t have it already.
Follow the instructions on the Go website to download and install Go:
https://go.dev/learn/
With that out of the way, let’s begin!
1. Ciphers
If you reveal your secrets to the wind you should not blame the wind
for revealing them to the trees.
—Kahlil Gibran, “Sand and Foam”
(photo by Earl Grey Ltd)
Let’s start with a quick introduction to the basics of cryptography (from the
Greek for “secret writing”). First, let’s distinguish codes from ciphers.
These words are often used interchangeably, but strictly speaking they refer
to two different things.
Codes and ciphers
To encrypt something is to hide or obscure its contents, and there are many
ways to do this. One way is to use a code: an alternate, usually shorter, way
of representing the text of a message.
For example, you’ve probably heard of the Morse code, in which each letter
of the alphabet is represented by a distinct pattern of short and long sounds.
