We can use the crypto/rand package to generate that random iv value. Over
to you for the next part, then!
GOAL: Update the encipher tool to use CBC mode instead of ECB.
HINT: As usual, let’s start by updating the tests. We won’t need 
shift.NewEncrypter or shift.NewDecrypter any more, so let’s remove those
tests, plus the code they test. That cleans up the shift package nicely.
At present, I don’t think we need to write any new tests, so let’s go straight
on to the main.go file for the encipher tool and see what we can do there.
We already know that we’ll be calling NewCBCEncrypter, and as a result
we’ll need some random data to act as the IV for the first block. We can get
that from crypto/rand, using the Read method:
Once we’ve successfully created our CBC encrypter, we can call its 
CryptBlocks method, as before, to do the actual encryption.
There’s just one problem left to solve: we need to output not just the
ciphertext, but the block of IV data too. Bob will need this to decipher the
message.
It doesn’t matter how we get this IV block to him, but one obvious way is
simply to make it the first block of the message. So the program should
output the IV first, followed by the ciphertext data.
We’ll handle this in the decipher program by assuming that the first block
we read will be the IV, and the rest will be the ciphertext.
enc := cipher.NewCBCEncrypter(block, iv)
iv := make([]byte, shift.BlockSize)
_, err = rand.Read(iv)
// handle error
The updated encipher program
SOLUTION: Let’s start with the preamble, which is exactly the same as
for the previous version of encipher:
(Listing shift/8)
So far, so good. Now, there’s no point generating an IV if it turns out we
weren’t able to read all the plaintext, so let’s do that first. Again, that’s
exactly the same as before:
(Listing shift/8)
func main() {
    keyHex := flag.String("key", "", "32-byte key in hexadecimal")
    flag.Parse()
    key, err := hex.DecodeString(*keyHex)
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
        os.Exit(1)
    }
    block, err := shift.NewCipher(key)
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
        os.Exit(1)
    }
plaintext, err := io.ReadAll(os.Stdin)
if err != nil {
    fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
    os.Exit(1)
}
Now we can read a block’s worth of random data to create our IV, and write
it out:
(Listing shift/8)
Finally, we’ll create the encrypter, pad the plaintext to the required length,
encrypt it, and write out the ciphertext:
(Listing shift/8)
Not too hard in principle; there are just a lot of moving parts to keep in
mind. Let’s try the program out and see what it does to our tiger text:
Previously, when we enciphered this file in ECB mode, without any IV
preamble, it was padded to 480 bytes. Now we should have an extra block’s
worth of data, making 512 bytes in all. Let’s see:
iv := make([]byte, shift.BlockSize)
_, err = rand.Read(iv)
if err != nil {
    fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
    os.Exit(1)
}
os.Stdout.Write(iv)
enc := cipher.NewCBCEncrypter(block, iv)
plaintext = shift.Pad(plaintext, shift.BlockSize)
ciphertext := make([]byte, len(plaintext))
enc.CryptBlocks(ciphertext, plaintext)
os.Stdout.Write(ciphertext)
go run ./cmd/encipher -key \
  8e8c2771be5c2bb10d541a5bf6aa51203e0bce2d6d4fa267afd89a6e20df11f1 
  < tiger.txt > enciphered.bin
512 enciphered.bin
Well, the numbers check out, but the real test will be if we can decipher this
file. Over to you again!
GOAL: Update the decipher tool to use CBC mode.
Updating the decipher program
HINT: This should be a lot easier now that we’ve figured out how
enciphering with CBC works. Again, everything’s the same up until the
point after we’ve read the input (in this case, it’s the ciphertext).
We now need to extract the IV, which we’ll assume is the first block of the
data we’ve just read. Once we have that, we can create the CBC decrypter.
We’ll then call its CryptBlocks method to decrypt the remainder of the
ciphertext (skipping the first block, which is the IV). Finally, we’ll unpad
the resulting plaintext and write it out.
Can you see what to do?
SOLUTION: Again, let’s start with the preamble of getting the key,
creating the cipher, and reading the ciphertext data:
wc -c enciphered.bin
func main() {
    keyHex := flag.String("key", "", "32-byte key in hexadecimal")
    flag.Parse()
    key, err := hex.DecodeString(*keyHex)
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
        os.Exit(1)
    }
(Listing shift/8)
Now we need to extract the first block’s worth of data into the iv variable:
(Listing shift/8)
We need a plaintext slice that’s just one block’s worth shorter than the
ciphertext, since we’re discarding the IV:
(Listing shift/8)
Great. Now we can create the decrypter, decrypt the remaining ciphertext,
unpad the result, and write it out:
    block, err := shift.NewCipher(key)
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
        os.Exit(1)
    }
    ciphertext, err := io.ReadAll(os.Stdin)
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
        os.Exit(1)
    }
iv := ciphertext[:shift.BlockSize]
plaintext := make([]byte, len(ciphertext)-shift.BlockSize)
dec := cipher.NewCBCDecrypter(block, iv)
dec.CryptBlocks(plaintext, ciphertext[shift.BlockSize:])
plaintext = shift.Unpad(plaintext, shift.BlockSize)
os.Stdout.Write(plaintext)
(Listing shift/8)
This looks promising, but there’s only one way to really know if it works:
try to decipher the message we just encrypted.
The tiger appears at its own pleasure...
The devil in disguise
It’s nice to see that after all that scrambling and unscrambling, we can still
get an intelligible message out at the other end. So let’s see how switching
to CBC mode affects the enciphered version of our devil image:
Wow! That’s really made a difference. This now looks far more like the
“random noise” image than the original devil gopher. And that’s not
surprising, because as we know, the ciphertext for each block is as much
affected by the ciphertext for the previous block as it is by the plaintext.
As a result, every block looks different, even when there are strong
regularities in the original image. While our cipher is by no means perfect,
go run ./cmd/decipher -key \
  8e8c2771be5c2bb10d541a5bf6aa51203e0bce2d6d4fa267afd89a6e20df11f1 
  < enciphered.bin 
now we’re at least operating it in a reasonably secure mode that’s much
better than the simplistic ECB.
15. Hashing
For the first time he perceived that if you want to keep a secret you
must also hide it from yourself.
—George Orwell, “Nineteen Eighty-Four”
In the previous chapter we talked about the kind of problems that Mallory
could cause by intercepting and modifying Alice and Bob’s cipher traffic:
for example, deleting certain blocks, or repeating or inserting new blocks.
Message integrity
Adopting a more sophisticated operating mode such as CBC addresses
these problems to some extent, by linking all the blocks together in a chain.
It still doesn’t prevent Mallory messing around with the blocks, but it at
least makes it harder for them to avoid detection.
The night is dark, and full of errors
For example, if Mallory alters one bit in the ciphertext of a given block,
Bob will find that his decryption program is unable to decipher that block,
or any that come after it. That’s as it should be, if the cipher is a good one
and being operated securely.
But in real life, communication channels are noisy and imperfect: bits could
be dropped or flipped due to thermal noise, cosmic rays, or loose cables.
TCP/IP, the internet communication protocol, includes error-correcting
machinery for just this reason. It can detect when a packet (the equivalent
of a block) has been corrupted, and ask for it to be retransmitted as many
times as necessary, until it makes it over the link intact.
We don’t have anything like that in our cipher scheme. Yes, if Alice sends
her ciphertext data over TCP/IP, it should reach Bob without too many
egregious bit-level errors. All the same, we have to assume some non-zero
error rate, even in the absence of a malicious Mallory.
Bit-flipping and block-dropping
Once Mallory enters the picture, the problem becomes even worse. By
flipping bits and making Alice’s messages partially unreadable, they can
cause a lot of trouble. Bob may have to ask Alice to retransmit her message
several times, and this in itself can weaken the security of the conversation.
At best, it causes annoying delays and eats up valuable bandwidth.
At worst, Mallory may be able to interfere with the message in undetectable
ways. Some cipher schemes are vulnerable to attacks where flipping just the
right bits, in just the right way, causes Bob to decipher an incorrect
plaintext. Depending on the message, and the situation, that might be
harmless. Then again, it might not.
An even simpler attack against a CBC-encrypted conversation is for
Mallory to drop one or more blocks from the end of the message. Bob has
no way to detect this, because there are no blocks following the deleted
ones, so he won’t be tipped off by failing to decipher them.
He might be suspicious that the message ends abruptly, or even in the
middle of a sentence. Alice could help him out by always ending her
messages with some agreed word or phrase. For example, in the early days
of telegraphy, non-words such as “ENDIT” were sometimes used for this
purpose, since they wouldn’t occur as a normal part of the message.
Cryptographically, though, this is a bad idea, as we already know. Any
stereotyped or predictable text gives Eve a crib, especially if it occurs at the
beginning or end of the plaintext. We need to do a bit better than a simple
end-of-message indicator.
Integrity checking
Let’s frame the problem this way. How can Bob know that the ciphertext
message he received is exactly the one Alice sent?
The obvious ideas don’t work. For example, suppose she begins each
message with a number giving the length of the whole message in
characters. That won’t stop Mallory shortening or lengthening the message.
If the length prefix is in clear, then Mallory can just change it to match the
altered message. If it’s in cipher, then they can use it as a crib, because
Alice can’t easily conceal the length of the message.
In any case, Mallory could simply add junk data to make up the required
length. We need some scheme where the “tamper-proof” metadata isn’t
easily deduced or altered by Mallory, and it’s connected in some robust way
with the actual content of the message.
In other words, Alice should be able to do some computation on the
message, and send Bob the result. He should then be able to do the same
computation and compare his result with Alice’s. If they differ, then there’s
a very high probability that the message has been corrupted.
Digests and hashing
