and compare it with the one Alice sent.
This clever scheme is called a Message Authentication Code (MAC). Even
though Mallory could still brute-force a valid preimage for Alice’s hash, it
won’t fool Bob, because when he appends the key to Alice’s ciphertext and
hashes the result, it won’t match.
And Mallory can’t generate a bogus message that produces the required
hash when the key is appended, because they don’t have the key.
Checkmate?
Well, not quite.
Length extension attacks
Hashing the ciphertext and key together is much better than hashing just the
ciphertext, but it’s still not perfect. Some hash algorithms, including SHA-
256, are vulnerable to what’s called a length extension attack.
This loophole means that, while Mallory can’t alter the original message
without being detected, they can append extra text to it. As you can
imagine, this could be problematic.
Alice’s original message might be “I love you, Bob”, and Mallory could
append some text to it like this: “…but for reasons I can’t go into, our love
can never be. I’m leaving town tonight, goodbye forever.” Even without
knowing the key, they can use Alice’s original hash plus the new text to
produce a new, valid hash.
When Bob checks the hash, it looks to him as though this is a genuine
message. Oh no! Bob and Alice’s love-boat has been torpedoed before it
even really got under way. And all because Alice was a bit careless with her
message discipline.
HMAC
We can’t let that happen, so we’ll need to make a slight, but significant,
improvement to our scheme. We’ll have Alice hash the “key + message”
combination, as before, but we’ll also add an extra step: hashing the key
plus the hash.
Let’s take that step by step:
1. Alice joins the key and ciphertext and computes the resulting hash
(called the inner hash).
2. Then Alice joins the key with the inner hash and uses the result to
compute the outer hash.
3. Finally, Alice sends the ciphertext along with the outer hash.
If our hash function is H, let’s say, then a simple hash of the message would
be H(message). We know that’s no good, for the reasons we already
discussed.
A simple MAC, then, would be H(message + key), or H(key + message).
These are better, as we’ve seen, but still vulnerable in certain
circumstances.
So the improvement we’re making is to compute H(key + H(key + 
message)) instead. This seems weird, but it’s cryptographically sound. The
inner hash is obscured, so Mallory can’t use it to carry out a length
extension attack. The outer hash still requires the key, so Mallory can’t just
brute-force a preimage.
This scheme is called a Hash-based MAC (HMAC). It can give a message
authenticity even without secrecy, which is handy.
Suppose Alice wants to send a message to the whole world proclaiming her
love for Bob (love tends to have that effect, after all). She can put it on her
website, in clear, but also attach an HMAC of the message.
Only Alice could have generated that HMAC, and only Bob can verify it,
because they are the only two people who have the key. How satisfying!
Key exchange
Actually, that brings us to another problem, and one that we haven’t really
talked about so far in this book. Every encryption or authentication scheme
we’ve looked at has relied on exactly this point: Alice and Bob must share a
copy of the key. But how, exactly, is that to be arranged?
The problem
Suppose Alice and Bob decide that they want to communicate securely. It’s
easy enough for Alice to generate a secure key, especially if she’s read the
earlier chapters of this book, and has access to a good source of
cryptographic entropy. But how is she now to get a copy of that key to Bob?
Meeting in person would obviously be the best way: she can hand over a
physical device such as a flash drive with the key stored on it, or even just
write it down on paper.
But suppose Alice and Bob are too far apart to meet in person, or at least
that it’s not convenient for them to meet every time they need to exchange a
new key. What could they do instead?
Alice could just email the key to Bob, but we know that’s no good: Eve
might intercept the email. Worse, Mallory might replace Alice’s key with
one of their own, and then they’d be able to read and modify all of Alice
and Bob’s cipher traffic undetected.
The same concerns apply to a phone call, letter, or any other non-secure
way of communicating.
Key splitting
If she’s wise, Alice won’t trust the entire key to a single channel. Instead,
she’ll split it up into multiple parts, and send each one a different way: half
by email, for example, and half by phone. That makes Eve and Mallory’s
job harder, which, as you know, is all we can ever hope to do, but it’s well
worth doing all the same.
However, if at all possible, Alice would really like to avoid having to send
any part of the key over an insecure channel.
Of course, if Alice and Bob already had a secure way of communicating,
they wouldn’t need to exchange a key in the first place! So we face a
seemingly unresolvable problem. The only way for them to communicate
securely is to share the key, but they can only do that by communicating
securely. What to do?
Well, when you put it that way, the answer’s obvious, isn’t it? Don’t share
the key.
Asymmetric encryption
Okay, that might need a little more explanation, so here goes. Suppose there
were a way for Alice to generate a special kind of key, one that comes in
two parts. One part is secret, and Alice keeps this to herself, as with an
ordinary key.
The other part of the key, though, doesn’t need to be secret. In fact, it can be
public. She could send it to Bob via some insecure channel such as email,
or just put it on her website.
Now Bob—or anyone else—can use the public part of Alice’s key to
encipher a message in such a way that only Alice can read it. That is, only
someone in possession of the private part of the key can decipher a message
encrypted using the public part.
The neat thing is that Alice and Bob never have to meet, or communicate
any secret information over a potentially insecure channel. Yet they can still
have a securely-encrypted conversation. So how does that work? Is it even
possible?
As we saw in the first chapter, the history of cryptography is long: people
have been exchanging hidden messages for thousands of years, at least as
long as writing has existed, and perhaps before that. But until very recently,
they’ve always had to rely on being able to communicate keys between the
sending and receiving parties, and that creates an obvious vulnerability for
an attacker to exploit.
This is known as the key exchange problem.
Public and private keys
All the cryptography we’ve discussed up to now has been what’s called
symmetric: the symmetry here is that the enciphering and deciphering
processes use the same key.
If there were an alternative scheme where you could encipher with one key,
but decipher with a different (yet somehow related) key, that would be
called asymmetric encryption. Wouldn’t that be nice?
Well, as you probably guessed, I’m about to outline just such a scheme.
Because the point of it is for one of the keys to be public, it’s also called
public-key cryptography, which I’m sure you’ve heard of. Now let’s see
how it works.
It’s a bit like one of those magician’s tricks where you think of a number,
they tell you to multiply or divide it a bunch of times, and when you give
them the result, they miraculously tell you the number you first thought of.
It’s not really magical, of course: it’s mathemagical. The starting and
ending numbers are related in a completely deterministic way, just one
that’s not particularly obvious.
The Diffie-Hellman-Merkle protocol
Suppose you could do this kind of trick with a private key; it’s just a
number, after all. Scramble it in some non-trivial, non-reversible way, and
you end up with another number that you can safely reveal to the world: the
public key. (Actually, that sounds a lot like a hash, doesn’t it?)
And suppose further that if a message were enciphered with this public key,
you could only decipher it using the corresponding private key. So what
mathematical function could we use to scramble keys in this sort of system?
It would have to be a one-way function, similar to the secure hash functions
we’ve discussed already in this book, though with some different specific
properties. Let’s look at one such system, named Diffie-Hellman-Merkle
(DHM), after its inventors.
While DHM is not a full public-key cryptosystem in itself, it does provide a
way for two parties to communicate in public to arrive at a shared private
key, without revealing what it is.
If Alice and Bob can do this easily, then they can generate and use a new
key for every conversation (this is known as forward secrecy). Now, even if
Eve or Mallory can intercept a message and use brute force or cryptanalysis
to break the key, the damage is limited. They can read that one message, but
it won’t help them decrypt future messages, which will use new keys.
A one-way function for key exchange
The particular asymmetry, or one-way-ness, used by DHM is that between
the respective difficulties of computing exponents and logarithms (set your
calculator to “maths” for the following section).
Exponentiation is when you raise a given number to some power: for
example, 210. Here, 10 is the exponent, and to calculate the result we
multiply 2 by itself 10 times: the answer is 1024. Not too hard: you can do
that with pencil and paper, or a few carefully-arranged transistors.
On the other hand, computing the logarithm is the inverse operation: you
start with 1024 and ask how many times you have to multiply 2 by itself to
get this result. The answer is known as the logarithm of 1024 (to base 2).
It’s 10, of course, but if we didn’t already have that information, we’d have
to work it out by trial and error.
Finding logarithms, then, is a much harder problem than exponentiation. It
can’t be done analytically: that is, there’s no formula that just gives you the
answer in a single computation.
Instead, you have to do it iteratively: guessing the answer, raising 2 to that
power and seeing how close you got to the required number, then
successively improving your guess until you think it’s good enough.
Sounds a lot like a brute-force attack, doesn’t it? And that’s exactly what it
is.
In just the same way, enciphering a block with a given key is fast, but
reverse-engineering a ciphertext when you don’t know the key is extremely
slow. And, while hashing a block with SHA-256 is fast, especially with a
custom Bobcoin mining rig, guessing the exact preimage that produces a
desired hash is much slower, as we saw in the previous chapter.
A simplified, though inaccurate, way to think about the DHM key exchange
scheme is like this: imagine Alice generates a private key and sends Bob the
hash of it. Now imagine Bob generates his own key and sends Alice the
hash of that.
Now add a little hand-wavy mathematical fairy dust, like the after-dinner
magician, and it turns out that Alice and Bob can both independently use
these different hashes to calculate the same number.
That number can now be the private session key they use to communicate:
perhaps they’ll arrange to meet for drinks, and maybe take in a magic show
afterwards. Who knows where such an enchanted evening might end?
A DHM worked example
Okay, the hand-waving was a bit quicker than the eye there, so let’s go
through the process in more detail with an example.
First, Alice and Bob agree on a pair of numbers they’ll use for this
calculation, called the modulus and the base, and these can be public. Let’s
say they use a modulus p = 13 and base g = 6. Not just any two numbers
will do, but never mind: these will work for the example.
The next step is for Alice to generate a secret number a that only she
knows, perhaps using a random process. We’ll use 5 as an example, but a
really secure private key would be much larger, as you know. Using a small
number makes the sums easier for explaining the idea, though.
Alice now applies her one-way function (exponentiation) to compute the
result she can send publicly to Bob. Specifically, she computes:
ga mod  p
In other words, she raises the pre-agreed base number g to the a-th power
and takes the result modulo p (remember the modulus operation? Of course
you do.)
Substituting in our chosen values, she gets:
65 mod  13 = 2
Now over to Bob, who generates his own secret number b = 4, and then
munges it in the same way that Alice did. That is, he raises the base g to the
b-th power, mod p. He gets:
64 mod  13 = 9
Alice and Bob can now exchange these results in public, quite safely. No
one can use them to work backwards to the corresponding secret numbers,
except by brute-force guessing.
So now Alice knows that the result of Bob’s calculation is 9, and Bob
knows that the result of Alice’s calculation is 2. Take a deep breath, because
we’re almost there.
The reveal
Here comes the final step. Alice does another modular exponentiation:
Ba mod  p
That is, she raises Bob’s result (9) to the power of her own secret number
(5), mod 13. So:
95 mod  13 = 3
This answer is the shared session key that Alice and Bob will use to
communicate. So, if the DHM scheme works, Bob should be able to
calculate the same number by a similar process (Ab mod  p). Let’s see:
24 mod  13 = 3
Now that’s magic! Or rather, it isn’t, but it seems magical if you don’t know
how the trick works. It relies on the not particularly surprising fact that:
(ga)b = (gb)a
In other words, it doesn’t matter in which order you do the two
exponentiations: a first, or b first, you get the same answer. For example, if
you square 2 and then cube the result, you get 64, and if you instead cube 2
and then square the result of that, you still get 64.
As we saw earlier, real DHM key exchanges would use much larger
numbers, and there are a few more fiddly details that we needn’t worry
about, such as how to choose the base and modulus. You get the basic idea,
though.
For more information, please reread, or have a look at Joumana El Alaoui’s 
kgen project, which implements the DHM protocol in Go:
https://github.com/joumanae/kgen
Public-key cryptography
As neat as it is, DHM, as we’ve seen, isn’t by itself a true public-key
cryptosystem. Alice and Bob are still using plain old symmetric encryption,
meaning they have to share a key.
It’s just that we’ve somewhat streamlined the process of exchanging that
key, meaning that they can safely use an insecure channel to communicate
about it. But they still have to have that communication before they can
start an encrypted conversation.
By contrast, with a public-key cryptosystem, Alice could send Bob a
private, encrypted message without any preamble. She wouldn’t have to
arrange with Bob to do the Diffie-Hellman-Merkle dance, or leave a copy
of her key behind a loose stone in the garden wall, or anything like that.
Instead, she could just look up Bob’s public key online, in the cryptographic
equivalent of the phone book, and send him a message right out of the blue.
Yet, only Bob (or someone who’s managed to steal his private key) could
read it. So how would that work?
RSA
Again, there are many different ways of doing this, but we’ll take a brief
look at one fairly well-known scheme. It was invented first by Clifford
Cocks, and then again independently by Rivest, Shamir, and Adleman,
which is why it’s now known as RSA.
RSA relies on the same sort of one-way function trick as DHM, and it
works like this. Alice chooses two large, random prime numbers, puts them
into a mathemagical sausage machine, and out pop two related numbers:
her private key and her public key.
Alice can quite safely distribute her public key, or register it with some
public directory, and anyone can use it to send her an encrypted message.
However, only Alice can decrypt and read it. No one else, not even the
sender, can unscramble the message.
In practice, though, it’s usual to encrypt the message to your own public key
as well as the intended recipient’s, so that you can read messages you’ve
sent, and RSA allows for that. Indeed, you can encrypt a message to as
many recipients as you want, including yourself. All you need are the
corresponding public keys.
So far, so straightforward. The bit that makes it seem like magic is the
relationship between the private and public keys. They must be related, or
