3. Deciphering
There are two kinds of cryptography in this world: cryptography that
will stop your kid sister from reading your files, and cryptography that
will stop major governments from reading your files.
—Bruce Schneier, “Applied Cryptography”
(from “The KnowHow Book of Spycraft”)
So, have we improved the security of our cipher? We saw that the previous
version of the program, using a fixed key of 1, was vulnerable to the
frequency analysis technique. Eve could start by guessing that the most
common ciphertext letter represents E, and go from there.
Let’s see if being able to choose a different key avoids this weakness.
Brute force and ignorance
For example, here’s the result of enciphering “THESE PRETZELS ARE
MAKING ME THIRSTY” with a key of 12:
`TQ_Q,\^Q`fQX_,M^Q,YMWUZS,YQ,`TU^_`e
It looks pretty much like gibberish. But Eve’s frequency analysis attack still
works just as well here, it turns out. The most common ciphertext letter is
now Q (17th in the alphabet), and if she assumes it represents E (5th in the
alphabet), then the required shift value gives her the key straight away: it’s
12.
Dang!
A statistical vulnerability
It’s clear that one of the major weaknesses in our cipher is not the choice of
key, but the fact that each plaintext letter always produces the same letter in
the ciphertext. As a result, the characteristic letter frequencies of English (or
whatever the plaintext language is) are a dead giveaway.
Of course, there are perfectly legitimate messages where E happens not to
be the most common letter. The next most common letters in English are T, 
A, I, N, O, and S, in that order, and they would also be reasonable guesses for
the frequency analyst. Other languages have a slightly different frequency
table, but not that different.
This is a statistical technique, so the longer the ciphertext Eve has to work
with, the more effective it becomes. To make Eve’s job harder, therefore,
Alice should minimise the amount of data enciphered with a given key.
We’ll look at one way to do this later on.
However, we have made one important improvement in the strength of our
cipher. With a fixed key (whether it’s 1 or any other number), the secrecy of
our messages would depend entirely on Eve not knowing the cipher scheme
we’re using. Now that Alice can choose different keys, this is no longer
true.
It’s still a good idea to keep the details of the cipher secret, but it’s no
longer such a disaster if they become known to Eve, or anyone else. Alice
must, however, keep her key itself a secret, or the cipher is no cipher at all.
In fact, it’s always safest to assume that, in the words of Claude Shannon,
“the enemy knows the system”, and to make sure that such knowledge is as
little help to them as possible.
How many possible keys are there?
And there’s another, related problem. Because we’re working with bytes,
there’s only so far we can shift them. A single byte can represent values
between 0 and 255, so, as we saw earlier, that limits our cipher to just 255
possible useful keys.
A cipher with a small number of keys is weak: if Eve can just guess the key
within a reasonable number of attempts, then Alice and Bob’s chats won’t
be secure for long.
This becomes more likely if Alice isn’t very good at choosing random keys,
and instead uses her dog’s name, her mom’s birthday, or her favourite food
as a key. Now if Eve knows something about Alice, or can find out, she has
an improved chance of guessing the key. (We’ll talk about how Alice could
choose better keys later on in this book.)
But if Eve doesn’t know who enciphered the message, or even whether or
not they have a dog, she’s still in with a chance. Even completely
uninformed guesses will eventually hit on the right answer, given enough
time.
The simplest key-guessing approach, in fact, is known as brute force: Eve
just tries every possible key. It’s not sophisticated, but it is guaranteed to
succeed… eventually.
How effective would this be in practice, though? For what values of
“eventually” would the cipher really be vulnerable? Let’s do a little quick
estimation.
How safe is your safe?
Suppose Alice keeps her valuables (her cipher keys, perhaps) in one of
those old-timey safes protected by a combination lock, with three single-
digit number wheels. You can check my math on this one, but since the
combination could be any number between 000 and 999, that gives a total of
one thousand possible combinations.
And suppose Cat, a burglar, wants to get into the safe without using
explosives (too noisy) or drilling the lock (too slow). All she can do is try to
guess Alice’s combination. How much time would Cat need to have a
decent chance of accessing the safe?
We should first ask how long it takes Cat to try a particular combination.
She has to dial the number in and yank the handle to see if the safe opens.
That won’t take long, especially if she’s trying the combinations in
sequence. Let’s say it’s one second per combination.
So Cat could try all possible combinations—all possible keys, that is—in a
little over sixteen minutes. That’s not a tremendously long time, especially
if the safe is full of your hard-earned cash and valuables.
It gets worse, though, because she probably won’t even need to try every
possibility. On average, she’ll find the right combination about half-way
through the list of possibilities.
To put it another way, a three-digit combination gives Cat a 50% probability
of brute-forcing the safe within eight minutes. (That’s one of the reasons
why you don’t see many safes with combination locks these days.)
Doing it for the crack
What about our shift cipher, then? With a key length of one byte, how many
different keys would Eve have to choose from, and how long would it take
her to try half of the possibilities?
Just for fun, let’s see how long it actually takes to brute-force this key using
a Go program. That will give us a baseline to work from, so that we can
measure how future improvements to our cipher affect the brute-forcing
time.
What would such a program look like? It seems like it wouldn’t be too hard
to generate each of the possible keys, but how will we know when we’ve
found the right key? That’s not so straightforward.
Cribs
One option is just to print out the plaintexts resulting from all 255 possible
keys, and leave it to Eve to decide if any of them looks like an intelligible
message. That’s not a bad approach in principle, and we could even imagine
trying to detect valid plaintexts automatically in some way. We could look
for English words, for example, and consider the plaintext containing the
most dictionary words as the one most likely to be the true message.
But let’s keep things simple for now by assuming that we have some
reliable way to identify the correct key once we find it. One such way is to
compare the candidate plaintext against a crib: that is, some known
fragment of the true plaintext.
For example, if I give you the following ciphertext:
IQSJGT
and I tell you that the plaintext message begins with the letters “GO”, then
it’s very easy for you to check your guesses as you’re conducting the brute-
force key search. Simply try each key on the first two letters and see if they
produce “GO”. If they do, then you’ve cracked it!
Such cribs can be easier to find than you might think. Any stereotypical or
predictable text can be a crib. For example, if you were confronted with an
enciphered Go source file, you could make a very good guess that the first
word of the plaintext would be package. (It might be a build tag, but 
package is much more likely.)
Indeed, most digital file formats have some kind of predictable header data
that could act as a crib, as we’ll see later on. So, assuming we can supply a
suitable crib, how can we use it to crack the cipher?
Designing a cracking function
Let’s imagine, then, that we have a function called Crack that can take a
ciphertext and a crib, check various keys against the crib, and return the
result. How would it work, in principle? Let’s sketch out some ideas.
We’ll need a loop so that we can try each possible key value from 0 to 255.
Within that loop, what do we need to do? What does it mean to “try” a key?
Well, we need to use the key to decipher the message, but not all of it; just
enough to produce the crib (if we have the right key). So if the message is
100 bytes long, and we have a 10-byte crib, then we only need to try
decrypting the first 10 bytes of the message. We can compare the result of
this with the crib, and if it’s the same, then we very likely have the key.
First, we need Decipher
This is starting to look manageable, but there’s a problem: we don’t actually
have a Decipher function yet. And even though we haven’t yet attempted to
write Crack, it’s clear that it will be much easier to write if we already had 
Decipher. So let’s start there.
GOAL: Write a test for a Decipher function, in the same way that you did
for Encipher. This time, you decide what parameters the function should
take and what results it should return.
Given that we already have a test for Encipher, and we know that
deciphering is the exact inverse of enciphering, this isn’t too difficult, is it?
Let’s start with a single test case:
Now you can go ahead and write the Decipher function yourself:
func TestDecipherWithKey1TransformsIBMToHAL(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    input := []byte("IBM")
    want := []byte("HAL")
    got := shift.Decipher(input, 1)
    if !bytes.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Errorf("want %q, got %q", want, got)
    }
}
GOAL: Implement Decipher, and check your solution passes the test before
reading on.
HINT: If you’re not sure what to do, you can always refer to the existing
code for Encipher, and see if that gives you any ideas. Decipher must be
very similar in structure, mustn’t it? But there’s one important difference.
Can you see what to change?
SOLUTION: Well, one completely reasonable solution to this problem is
to write something very similar to Encipher, but that subtracts the key from
each byte instead of adding it:
If this was your answer, it’s fine, but can you do better? Is there a shorter,
neater, more elegant solution?
GOAL: Do better.
HINT: As we saw earlier, deciphering is very similar to enciphering. In
fact, with the shift scheme we’re using, it’s identical, except that we
subtract the key from the plaintext byte instead of adding it.
To put it another way, we can think of deciphering as being simply
enciphering with a negative key. Does that give you any ideas?
func Decipher(ciphertext []byte, key byte) (plaintext []byte) {
    plaintext = make([]byte, len(ciphertext))
    for i, b := range ciphertext {
        plaintext[i] = b - key
    }
    return plaintext
}
SOLUTION: If deciphering is really just enciphering with a negative key,
then we can call Encipher to implement Decipher. This saves duplicating a
lot of logic:
(Listing shift/5)
If you came up with this solution first, great! And if you wrote the longer
version first, that’s also just fine, because it’s the behaviour that matters in
the end, not the code.
Do we even need a test, then?
Since we already wrote a really thorough table test for Encipher, checking
the effect of several different keys, should we do the same for Decipher,
too? What do you think?
One response to this might be “No, that’s a waste of time, because Decipher
is implemented in terms of Encipher, and we already tested that.”
But there’s a subtle mistake here. We said earlier that good tests are
concerned with the program’s behaviour, not its implementation. So we
need to treat Decipher, again, as a black box, whose inner workings we
have no access to.
Sure, today it happens to work by calling Encipher, but tomorrow we might
change it to use looping and subtraction, or something else. And in order to
make that change it would be helpful to have a test that doesn’t rely on the
current implementation details.
New test, same old table
func Decipher(ciphertext []byte, key byte) (plaintext []byte) {
    return Encipher(ciphertext, -key)
}
So, while the argument for not testing Decipher more thoroughly is
superficially appealing, it doesn’t hold up. Let’s go ahead and extend the 
Decipher test to cover all the cases we already checked for Encipher.
GOAL: Extend the test for Decipher to cover the same cases as for 
Encipher.
HINT: It seems a shame to repeat all those cases in the new test, doesn’t it?
Instead, could we re-use the existing table of cases from TestEncipher
somehow?
I think we could, if we extract it from the function and make it a package-
level variable. That is, we’ll define our cases slice outside any function, so
that it’s in scope for all our test functions.
We’ll need to use a var statement for this, since assignment using the :=
operator isn’t allowed outside a function. See what you can do.
SOLUTION: By using var to define our slice, we can place this code in 
shift_test.go, outside the test functions:
var cases = []struct {
    key                   byte
    plaintext, ciphertext []byte
}{
    {
        key:        1,
        plaintext:  []byte("HAL"),
        ciphertext: []byte("IBM"),
    },
    {
        key:        2,
        plaintext:  []byte("SPEC"),
        ciphertext: []byte("URGE"),
(Listing shift/5)
We’ve tweaked the field names slightly, since input and want don’t really
apply anymore: it depends on whether you’re testing enciphering or
deciphering. Instead, we use plaintext and ciphertext to make it clear.
Look before you loop
Now we can loop over cases in both tests, since all functions defined in a
package have access to variables defined at the package level.
Here are the updated tests for both functions:
    },
    {
        key:        3,
        plaintext:  []byte("PERK"),
        ciphertext: []byte("SHUN"),
    },
    {
        key:        4,
        plaintext:  []byte("GEL"),
        ciphertext: []byte("KIP"),
    },
    {
        key:        7,
        plaintext:  []byte("CHEER"),
        ciphertext: []byte("JOLLY"),
    },
    {
        key:        10,
        plaintext:  []byte("BEEF"),
        ciphertext: []byte("LOOP"),
    },
}
