In general, it’s a good idea to get rid of any tests that are no longer
providing value. All code is technical debt, and tests are no exception. Keep
them lean and focused.
Updating the crack tool
Now that we can crack longer keys, the next step is to add that new
functionality to our command-line tool.
Applying brute force
The only change needed, in fact, is that we no longer have to cast key to a 
byte when passing it to Decipher, because it’s already the type we want:
func main() {
    crib := flag.String("crib", "", "crib text")
    flag.Parse()
    if *crib == "" {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr,
            "Please specify a crib text with -crib")
        os.Exit(1)
    }
    ciphertext, err := io.ReadAll(os.Stdin)
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
        os.Exit(1)
    }
    key, err := shift.Crack(ciphertext, []byte(*crib))
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
        os.Exit(1)
    }
    plaintext := shift.Decipher(ciphertext, key)
(Listing shift/6)
Crib considerations
So let’s try it out!
The tiger appears at its own pleasure. When we become very silent 
...
Not bad. We still managed to brute-force the key, even though there are
now over 4 billion possibilities, instead of just 256. And it was still pretty
fast!
We didn’t need a very long crib, either: just 2% of the length of the
message, which seems quite achievable.
Could we still have cracked this key, even with a shorter crib? Let’s try:
The1.XG...r.pea..A.@8.. owQ_L..B..e. h.TNb.41.eco~.V..H1.ile.A.@ 
...
Um. That doesn’t look right (apart from the first three letters). So what went
wrong?
A false deciphering
Actually, thinking it through, you can see what happened, can’t you? We
tried to guess the first byte of the key; eventually we tried the byte DE, and it
    os.Stdout.Write(plaintext)
}
go run ./cmd/encipher -key DEADBEEF <tiger.txt >enciphered.bin
go run ./cmd/crack -crib 'The tiger' <enciphered.bin
go run ./cmd/crack -crib 'The' <enciphered.bin
worked. We recovered the first letter of the crib: “T”.
Next, we worked our way round to correctly guessing that the second byte
of the key is AD, and used it to recover the second crib letter: “h”. The third
byte of the key is BE, and it yields the crib letter “e”, which is right.
But, according to the code, once we’ve correctly deciphered the whole crib,
we consider the key found, and return it. However, the key DE AD BE is a
byte too short. Cycling repeatedly through this key as we decipher the
message gives the wrong result, as we just saw.
On being the right size
I don’t think it’s obvious at first glance, but we can now see why a useful
crib needs to be at least as long as the key, with this cipher scheme.
With a crib that’s shorter than the key, we can only recover as much of the
plaintext as we already have in the crib, which is no use. (It does get us part
of the key, which is better than nothing. It at least reduces the remaining
search space.)
If this theory is right, then, a crib exactly as long as the key should still be
sufficient for a correct deciphering. We’re using a four-byte key (DE AD BE 
EF), so the string “The ” (including the space) should be enough.
Let’s try:
The tiger appears at its own pleasure. When we become very silent 
...
Good. Story checks out. Let’s move on.
go run ./cmd/crack -crib 'The ' <enciphered.bin
7. Passwords
MICKEY: It’s asking for the password.
THE DOCTOR: “Buffalo”. Two Fs, one L.
JACKIE: So, what’s that website?
MICKEY: All the secret information known to mankind.
—Doctor Who, “World War Three”
We improved our very simple cipher scheme quite a bit, just by adapting it
to work with longer keys. And we’ve seen why longer keys make the
system more secure: if all Eve can do is try to guess the key, a longer key
makes that job harder.
Security
But do all keys of a given length make an enciphered message equally
secure? Surely not. For example, a key of all zeroes, in our cipher system,
doesn’t alter the plaintext at all. So, while size does matter, there are other
aspects of choosing a secure key that we need to think about.
So, what does it mean for a key to be more or less secure, and how can we
choose or generate secure keys for use with our cipher?
Password spaces
Let’s think about passwords, for example, to bring this problem closer to
most people’s everyday experience. A password is a kind of cryptographic
key, but there’s no message (or the message is simply “It’s me!”). Instead,
being in possession of the correct password gives you access to some
resource, like a computer or a bank account, rather than a message.
But the same kind of rules that govern keys in general apply to passwords,
too: to be secure, they should be hard to guess, for example. In our
discussion of keyspaces, we saw that making the number of possible keys
larger automatically makes the key harder for Eve to guess.
That’s because enumerating the possible keys requires computation, and
that takes some irreducible amount of energy. Eve can guess keys faster by
using more computers in parallel, but her final electricity bill will be the
same, regardless.
But we’ve also implicitly assumed that Alice is completely unbiased in her
choice of key. In other words, as Bruce Schneier puts it:
If the key is 64 bits long, every possible 64-bit key must be equally
likely.
—“Applied Cryptography”
Dictionary words
But a password is a special kind of key in another way: traditionally, it was
expected that a person would be able to memorise their password. Human
brains, though, impressive as they are in some ways, aren’t all that good at
remembering arbitrary combinations of letters and symbols (or, for that
matter, 64 randomly-generated bits).
So when people are allowed to choose their own passwords, they tend to
pick English words (or whatever their favourite language is). This is already
a bad idea on the grounds of key length, because most words are pretty
short.
The average English word is about five letters long, and as we’ve already
seen, that’s well within the capacity of current computers to guess in a few
seconds, simply by enumerating all possible combinations of letters. A
fourteen-letter password would take much longer to brute-force, perhaps
100 million years, but such words are relatively uncommon in English
(when’s the last time you managed to work the word “abdominoplasty” into
conversation?)
It gets worse, though, because if Eve knows that Alice’s password is an
English word, she can take a short-cut. Rather than enumerate all possible
combinations of letters, she can start by trying every word in the dictionary,
because there are far, far fewer of those. In other words, the set of
combinations of N letters that happen to form English words is a tiny subset
of all possible combinations of N letters.
Extremely guessable passwords
Only if the dictionary search fails does Eve need to fall back to brute-
forcing. But it’s very likely that Alice’s password will be found by a simple
lookup. In one study cited by Schneier, such a dictionary attack succeeded
in finding passwords for 40% of the accounts targeted. In other words, at
least 40% of people are picking extremely guessable passwords.
Indeed, just 25 or so common words make up around 10% of all passwords,
including password, qwerty, iloveyou, admin, lovely, welcome, and
variations on 12345, 123456, 1234567, and so on. (If you want to take a
minute to go and change some of your passwords right now, go ahead. I’ll
wait.)
So while Eve could explore the keyspace sequentially, as our key-cracking
tool does, or randomly, she’d be much better advised to start with the
widely-available common password list, followed by the English dictionary.
Next on Eve’s list should be simple obfuscations of common passwords,
such as those produced by substituting 1 for i, 0 for o, and so on. Then she
might move on to pairs of words, including obfuscated words, joined by
symbols (s3cr3t-passw0rd), then combinations of three words, and so on.
Although there are lots of English words (my system dictionary reports
about a quarter of a million), and even more word pairs (60 billion), that’s
still just peanuts compared to the total keyspace. So it absolutely makes
sense for Eve to try these possibilities first, if she knows that Alice has a
memorisable password.
Passphrases
Obfuscated dictionary words, then, are both easy for Eve to guess and
surprisingly hard for Alice to remember accurately (was it secr3t or 
s3cret?) Instead, when security is paramount, Alice should use some well-
tested computer program to generate a long, random password from as wide
a range of characters as possible. She won’t be able to remember it, but
that’s what password managers are for. Use them.
But what if it’s something that Alice just has to be able to memorise? For
example, in a situation where she won’t be able to use password manager
software or some other kind of cryptographic vault. Can a memorisable
password be secure?
Well, there’s a trick for this: instead of using just one word, use lots of
words. For example, “Colourless green ideas sleep furiously”. That’s 38
characters including spaces (37 if you’re American), which is long enough
to defeat even the most patient brute-force attacker. Yet, it sticks in the
mind. I’d be prepared to bet you’ll remember it even after you’ve finished
reading this book (so don’t actually use that example).
Long phrases like this aren’t entirely proof against dictionary attacks, but
they do make such attacks much, much harder and more expensive. For
systems that limit the length of passwords, you can use the initial letters of
some long phrase instead:
Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? 
Thou art more lovely and more temperate.
becomes:
SIctasd?Tamlamt
Rules
Just out of interest, though, how big is the keyspace for a password of a
given length, assuming that Alice is smart enough not to choose dictionary
words, but instead picks characters at random in some way?
Character sets
That depends on the set of characters from which Alice is allowed to
choose. Let’s take a five-character password, for example, just because it
makes the numbers easier to deal with.
If Alice is restricted to only uppercase letters, and only those from the
English alphabet, then there are 26 possibilities for the first letter, 26 for the
second, and so on. That gives us 265 ≈ 12, 000, 000 possible passwords.
Fine, so how does that change if we add lowercase letters to the set? Now
there are 52 choices for each character, giving 525 ≈ 380, 000, 000. Quite a
difference: the keyspace (and, equivalently, the average brute-force time) is
32 times bigger. We doubled the keyspace for each character, giving us 25 
= 32 times as many possible 5-character passwords.
Let’s add digits and symbols to the list: in fact, let’s add every character it’s
possible to type on a computer keyboard, of which there are about 100 in
total. So that’s 1005 = 10, 000, 000, 000. That’s about a thousand times
bigger keyspace than with just the uppercase letters.
Of course, we know that making the password longer would also increase
the keyspace, exponentially with the number of characters, but let’s ignore
that for now and focus only on the effect of enlarging or reducing the set of
allowed characters.
Password policies
You’ve probably used websites or applications that enforce certain rules
about the passwords you can choose. For example, a typical rule might be
that the password must include at least one digit.
So what effect does that have on the keyspace, and thus the security of the
password? Let’s run the numbers.
As we’ve seen, the keyspace of a 5-character password using all the
typeable symbols is about ten billion. But if Eve knows that one of those
characters has to be a digit, that makes her search much easier. Now she
only has to search the keyspace of a four-character password, and for each
guess, try it with each of the ten possible digits in each of the five places it
could be. That’s fifty guesses for each four-character password. So the
keyspace is reduced to 50 × 1004 = 5, 000, 000, 000, or half the size it was
with an unrestricted password.
What the hey? It seems like adding that extra “security rule” made the
password twice as easy to guess, and indeed that’s the case. Let’s add
another rule: the password must include at least one uppercase letter. Sadly,
that reduces its security still further, for the same reason, and so does every
extra restriction we place on Alice’s choice of characters.
We’d better stop adding password rules quickly, before we leave Alice with
only a handful of possible passwords, and Eve with a very easy task of
brute-forcing them! We just learned something very useful: password
policies generally make the security of the system worse, not better.
You’re really not helping
So why do application designers impose such restrictions in the first place?
Presumably they mean well, and their argument for requiring things like
digits and symbols might be that it prevents users from choosing simple
dictionary words. Or, at least, it forces them to add a digit and a symbol to
their chosen word. That’s not a terrible idea in principle.
But by helping users who are bad at choosing passwords, these policies
actively harm users who are good at it. That seems a shame. If you’re
writing software that lets users choose passwords, please don’t add
restrictions of this kind. If your boss insists on you adding such a feature,
show them this book (better still, get them to buy their own copy).
Don’t get me wrong: helping users pick strong passwords is a good thing to
do. This just isn’t the right way to do it. Wouldn’t it make more sense,
indeed, just to look up the user’s proposed password in the dictionary, and if
it’s there, reject it? Some websites do show a “password strength” indicator
as you type, which is nice, but who knows how it works or what it
measures?
The simplest and most effective thing you could do to improve the security
of your users’ passwords is probably just to require a minimum length of 14
characters. This means they will almost certainly have to use a password
manager, so please don’t also disable their ability to paste into the password
field.
While we’re on the subject of irritating, misguided, and counterproductive
password policies, some applications or even operating systems require
users to regularly change passwords. This is a mistake. If your passwords
are strong, then they won’t need changing. If they’re weak, then changing
them won’t help.
The only effect a policy like this has is to force users to write their
passwords on a note stuck to their monitor, and at that point you may as
well not bother with a password at all.
Maximising the keyspace
Back to cryptography. The cryptographic reason that password character
restrictions are bad, as we’ve seen, is that every restriction on what
characters Alice can include in her password is also information for Eve
about what characters it will include.
