For example, suppose you want to crack a 256-bit AES key, and you had a
computer with 256 qubits. Each of those qubits could stand for the
corresponding bit of the key. Since it can simultaneously represent both
possible values of that bit (0 and 1), you could effectively try all the
possible keys at once. It doesn’t work quite like that in practice, but it does
still give us a huge speedup, exponential with the number of qubits.
Similarly, the security of systems like RSA and Diffie-Hellman-Merkle
relies today on the difficulty of factorising and finding logarithms of very
large numbers, because the only way to do it is to try lots of possibilities.
But a powerful quantum computer would be able to try lots of possibilities
at once, making this problem easy.
That sounds like great news for Eve, and equally bad news for Alice and
Bob. But is it?
The catch
Well, hold your horses. First, it’s awfully difficult (and expensive) to build
even one qubit, never mind 256 of them.
The reason is that to avoid destroying the superposition of states in a qubit
(or rather, to avoid becoming entangled with that superposition yourself),
you mustn’t measure it. Unfortunately, almost any kind of particle-level
interaction counts as a “measurement”: the qubit being hit by a stray
photon, for example.
Second, quantum technology has some advantages for Alice and Bob, too.
One of them is that it lets them exchange messages in such a way that they
can’t be undetectably modified in transit by Mallory, a risk that we
discussed in the chapter on authentication.
In fact, they can’t even be read by a third party without detection. Again,
this is because measuring the state of a quantum bit collapses the
superposition (from the observer’s point of view).
The catch, though, is the same as it was for Eve: Alice and Bob need to
keep their quantum bits isolated from interactions with other particles,
which would cause decoherence: reducing the qubit to a plain old classical
bit. If Mallory or Eve tries to read the state of a message qubit, they destroy
the superposition, erasing the message. But the same thing happens if the
qubit is hit by a stray photon, too.
Why your computer isn’t quantum… yet
And there are a great many stray photons bouncing around the universe.
You’re being hit by billions of them at this very moment, for instance.
Isolating a qubit from all interactions for long enough to finish a
computation with it is a tricky business, and it takes a lot of liquid helium.
This makes the quantum computers of today very large, very cold, very
expensive, and so inefficient that for all practical purposes a plain old
classical computer is far better.
But classical computers, too, used to be enormous, hulking machines that
needed reinforced floors, and were only available to governments or those
with very deep pockets. Now you can fit one in your pocket, and you
probably do.
So we can also expect quantum computers to improve pretty rapidly,
reaching a level in the foreseeable future where they can be used for
practical attacks on encrypted messages. This inflection point is known by
researchers as Q-Day: the day when current cryptosystems like AES and
RSA can no longer be considered secure.
We don’t know exactly when Q-Day will be. It might be decades away, or it
might be tomorrow, but it’s definitely coming.
What then?
Post-quantum cryptography
Well, we’ll need a new kind of cryptography: one that’s secure against
attacks not just by classical computers, but by quantum computers too.
Research into this post-quantum cryptography is already well under way:
nothing like getting out ahead of the problem.
How is that possible, since the researchers don’t yet have workable
quantum computers to try out their algorithms on?
Well, even if we can’t buy one off the shelf, it’s perfectly possible to
imagine how a quantum computer would work, and even to simulate one
(slowly). So, while the current efforts are mostly theoretical, they’re also
quite sound (at least, as far as we can tell).
There are a few different approaches to strengthening cryptosystems against
quantum attack. One is simply to use larger keys. When quantum computers
become big enough and reliable enough to threaten the security of 256-bit
keys, we can just keep adding more bits until we feel safe again. As with
classical computers, it’s a lot more expensive for Eve to add another qubit
to her computer than it is for Alice to add another bit to her key.
More fundamentally, we can invent new kinds of cryptographic problem:
ones that are as hard for quantum computers to solve as factorisation is for
classical computers. Some of these, such as lattice-based cryptography, and
quantum-resistant hashing, look promising.
Maybe post-quantum cryptography will be the last cryptography, or maybe
not. There may be another computing revolution out there, waiting to be
found, that’s as significant a speedup as quantum computing. It seems
unlikely, but you never know.
Nature never seems to run out of fresh surprises for us, so stay tuned.
Things are going to get even more interesting.
Afterword
Oh, you wanted to know what happened with Alice and Bob? Well, they
exchanged keys (securely), had many enjoyable pizza dates, and, despite
the attempts of Eve and Mallory to interfere and subvert their
communications, are still an item to this day.
Now that Alice is studying for her doctorate in post-quantum cryptography,
she’s very busy, but she still has time to leave affectionate notes for Bob on
the fridge: encrypted, of course.
Even 256-bit keys won’t last forever, but maybe love can. We’ll see.
About this book
Who wrote this?
I’m John Arundel, nice to meet you. I’m a writer, mentor, and consultant
who’s published many books on Go, Rust, DevOps, software engineering,
tech careers, and personal focus and growth. If you’d like to know more,
check out my website:
https://bitfieldconsulting.com
Feedback
If you enjoyed this book, let me know! Email john@bitfieldconsulting.com
with your comments. If you didn’t enjoy it, or you found a problem, I’d like
to hear about that too. Your feedback is very welcome, and it helps to
improve each successive version of the book.
Get my free newsletter
To continue your learning journey, subscribe to my free newsletter: you’ll
get 2-3 emails a month about my latest blog posts, tutorials, and book
announcements. Your email address is private, you’ll never get spam, and
you can unsubscribe at any time.
https://bitfieldconsulting.com/subscribe
Free updates to future editions
All my books come with free updates to future editions, for life. Make sure
you save the email containing your download link that you got when you
made your purchase. It’s your key to downloading future updates.
When I publish a new edition, I’ll usually announce it in my newsletter. To
get your update, re-visit the link in your original download email, and
you’ll be able to download the new version.
NOTE: The Squarespace store makes this update process confusing for
some readers, and I heartily sympathise with them. Your original download
link is only valid for 24 hours, and if you re-visit it after that time, you’ll
see what looks like an error page:
But, in tiny print, you’ll also see a “click here” link. Click it, and a new
email with a new download link will be sent to you.
The Deeper Love of Go
The Deeper Love of Go is a book introducing the Go programming
language, suitable for complete beginners, as well as those with experience
programming in other languages.
If you’ve used Go before but feel somehow you skipped something
important, this book will build your confidence in the fundamentals. Take
your first steps toward mastery with this fun, readable, and easy-to-follow
guide.
Throughout the book we’ll be working together to develop a fun and useful
project in Go: an online bookstore called Happy Fun Books. You’ll learn
how to use Go to store data about real-world objects such as books, how to
write code to manage and modify that data, and how to build useful and
effective programs around it.
The Power of Go: Tools
Are you ready to unlock the power of Go, master obviousness-oriented
programming, and learn the secrets of Zen mountaineering? Then you’re
ready for The Power of Go: Tools.
It’s the next step on your software engineering journey, explaining how to
write simple, powerful, idiomatic, and even beautiful programs in Go.
This friendly, supportive, yet challenging book will show you how master
software engineers think, and guide you through the process of designing
production-ready command-line tools in Go step by step.
Further reading
You can find more of my books on Go here:
Go books by John Arundel
You can find more Go tutorials and exercises here:
Go tutorials from Bitfield
I have a YouTube channel where I post occasional videos on Go, and there
are also some curated playlists of what I judge to be the very best Go talks
and tutorials available, here:
Bitfield Consulting on YouTube
Credits
Gopher images by MariaLetta.
Acknowledgements
Many of the ideas and programs in this book were developed with the
indispensable help of my students at the Bitfield Institute of Technology,
the online school where I teach and mentor Go, and software engineering in
general. They are probably now pretty fed up with hearing me talk about
cryptography.
Special thanks are due to Joumana El Alaoui, who read practically all of the
book in draft form, and made many helpful suggestions. Now it’s her turn to
write a book, and I’m looking forward to it.
