data.
Let’s have a look at it, though, just to make sure it doesn’t reveal anything
obvious about the plaintext:
Qebqfdbo^mmb^op^qfqpltkmib^prob+Tebktb_b`ljbsbovpfibkq^qqe^qmi^`b) 
tfqeklbumb`q^qflklcqebqfdbo)qe^qfptebkeb`ellpbpql^mmb^+++Tebktbpq^ 
ka^qqebbadblcqebofsbot^fqfkdcloqebqfdbo)fqpbbjpqe^qqebpfibk`bq^hbp 
lk^nr^ifqvlcfqpltk+Qebjfka`ljbpql^pqlm+FkqebFkaf^kqo^afqflkqe^qfpq 
ebjljbkqtebkqebqb^`ebop^vp).}.Vlr^obqe^q+Vlr^obqe^qpfibk`b+Vlr^obq 
e^q+.}..}.Co^k`fpIr`fiib).}.QebMbocrjblcPfibk`b.}.%
Well, it doesn’t look like anything to me!
Let’s see if we can recover the plaintext with the crack tool, then:
And very quickly:
The tiger appears at its own pleasure. When we become very silent 
at that place, with no expectation of the tiger, that is when he 
chooses to appear... When we stand at the edge of the river waiting 
for the tiger, it seems that the silence takes on a quality of its 
own. The mind comes to a stop. In the Indian tradition that is the 
moment when the teacher says, “You are that. You are that silence. 
You are that.” 
—Francis Lucille, “The Perfume of Silence”
That’s encouraging. Given a suitable crib, we can automatically recover the
plaintext from a message enciphered with an unknown key. Great progress!
The devil in the details
We’ve been careful to ensure from the start that our program should be able
to handle any kind of data, not just text, so let’s try that too. For example,
cat enciphered.bin
go run ./cmd/crack -crib 'The tiger' <enciphered.bin
what if we enciphered an image? Would we still be able to recover the
original image data using crack?
It doesn’t matter what kind of image we use, but just for fun, we’ll
download this little devil, and save it to a file. Here’s what it looks like,
using any decent image-viewing program:
Now we’ll encipher it:
The resulting devil.bin file doesn’t in any way resemble an image, and
indeed most image-viewing software will refuse to open it. We’ll see what
we can do to recover the original with crack, but first, what’s our crib?
0x89 is the magic number
Well, without access to the original file, we wouldn’t know anything about
the image data it contains. Luckily, though, most well-known file formats
begin with some stereotyped byte sequence that identifies the format
(known as a header, or more romantically a magic number).
For example, all PNG files begin with the hex byte 0x89, followed by the
letters “PNG”. (If you’re not familiar with hex notation, don’t worry: we’ll
return to this later.)
go run ./cmd/encipher -key 99 <devil.png >devil.bin
That’s a perfect crib, but there’s one little hiccup: how can we actually
supply these bytes to the -crib flag on the command line? The value 0x89
doesn’t correspond to any printable character, so we can’t type it on the
keyboard. What to do?
There’s a helpful little Unix utility named printf that can solve this
problem for us. It prints any string we give it, but within that string we can
include escape sequences: ways of representing non-printing characters.
Here’s how we do that:
This prints PNG, as you’d expect, but prefixed by a weird character that
looks like a question mark inside a diamond-shaped box (depending on
your terminal font). This is the Unicode “replacement character” glyph,
meaning that the byte in question doesn’t correspond to any printable
character, which we already know it doesn’t.
Printing the unprintable
So we can’t just copy and paste this string straight from the terminal,
because that special glyph won’t be translated back into the byte 0x89.
Instead, we can embed the call to printf directly into our crack command
line:
The $(...) syntax is an instruction to the shell: run the command inside the
parentheses first, then substitute the result into the full command line.
Sure enough, the output plain.png file is byte-for-byte identical with the
original devil.png. If we open it in an image viewer we will see the little
devil, unharmed by his journey through our shift cipher:
printf '\x89PNG'
go run ./cmd/crack -crib $(printf '\x89PNG') <devil.bin >plain.png
5. Keys
Humans are incapable of securely storing high-quality cryptographic
keys, and they have unacceptable speed and accuracy when
performing cryptographic operations.
(They are also large, expensive to maintain, difficult to manage, and
they pollute the environment. It is astonishing that these devices
continue to be manufactured and deployed. But they are sufficiently
pervasive that we must design our protocols around their limitations.)
—Charlie Kaufman et al, “Network Security: Private Communication
in a Public World”
Okay, let’s get back to work: we still have a few more things to add before
we’re able to deal with realistic ciphers.
Lost in keyspace
We talked earlier about cipher strength in the context of brute-forcing, and
it’s clear that the smaller the number of possible keys, the easier it will be
for Eve to defeat the cipher.
And we already know that our single-byte shift cipher is pretty weak in this
respect, because it just doesn’t allow for enough possible keys. The proof is
that we can write a (fairly) simple Go program to crack any ciphertext in a
few microseconds. So this cipher scheme, while easy to reason about, isn’t
strong enough to protect any sensitive information.
The space of all possible keys
What would make it stronger, then? One obvious way would be to make the
key longer than a single byte, thus making the space of all possible keys—
the keyspace, we say—bigger. The bigger the keyspace, the longer a brute-
force search of it takes.
Adding a fourth number wheel to Alice’s office safe, for example, would
give her ten times as many possible keys. She can set the new wheel to ten
different digits for each possible arrangement of the original three wheels,
increasing the keyspace from 1,000 to 10,000 combinations.
Now Cat the burglar would need to remain undisturbed in Alice’s office
twiddling the safe for (on average) eighty minutes, and there’s a much
greater risk of her being caught than when it only took eight minutes.
How long should the key be?
In our shift cipher, similarly, we could make the key two bytes instead of
one. By the same argument as for the safe, that gives us 256 × 256 = 65, 
536 possible keys. It will therefore take 256 times longer to brute-force,
which is a big improvement, perhaps surprisingly so.
You might quite reasonably have guessed, for example, that doubling the
key length would make Alice’s messages twice as secure, but it’s very much
better than that.
In fact, every extra byte she adds to the key makes the keyspace (and thus
the average crack time) 256 times bigger. This is why reasonably long
passwords are so astoundingly much more secure than short ones.
For example, a seven-character password can be cracked (by 2020s
computers) in about six minutes, but a fourteen-character one would take
over 200 million years! That’s the counterintuitive power of exponential
growth (and also the reason why you should use long passwords).
So we won’t need to make our key too many bytes longer to get a really
worthwhile increase in the strength of our cipher. 32 bytes, or 256 bits, is
the biggest practical key size in current use, and we’re unlikely to need
larger keys for the foreseeable future.
Even with the help of Moore’s Law, it will take Eve a long time to double
her available computing power. But when that happens, all Alice needs to
do is add one more bit to her keys, and she’s put Eve right back where she
started. It’s an arms race that Eve can’t win.
Doubling computer power is also a lot more expensive than just making our
keys one bit longer, as you can imagine. So simply increasing the key
length is by far the most cost-effective cipher improvement we can make, at
least until we reach the point where brute-forcing is no longer the quickest
way to break the cipher.
A keyspace the size of the universe
How would lengthening our keys to 32 bytes affect the size of our
keyspace, then? Well, each extra byte makes it 256 times bigger, so our
keyspace now becomes 25632, or 2256, which is an absolutely gigantic
number:
115,792,089,237,316,195,423,570,985,008,687,907,853,269,984,665,640,5
64,039,457,
584,007,913,129,639,935
Phew! This is roughly 1077, which is of the same kind of order as the
number of atoms in the visible universe. In other words, brute-forcing a key
this long is equivalent to counting every atom in a sphere of space 100
billion light years across. How long would that take, then?
Well, you can do the math, but a long time, many billions of billions times
longer than the current age of the Universe, even if Eve throws every
computer on Earth at the problem (which she could conceivably do, using
something like a botnet). That’s as close to uncrackable as makes no
difference, for our purposes.
Yes, computers get faster over time, so in a hundred years it’ll take much
less time to crack keys than it does today. And it’s possible to imagine an
advanced civilisation building vast computers, the size of solar systems,
dedicated solely to brute-forcing Alice’s messages from long ago.
But pretty soon, the limiting factor becomes energy, rather than time.
Computation takes energy, and the bigger the computer, the more energy it
uses. Bruce Schneier observes (in Applied Cryptography) that the usable
energy released by the average supernova is about enough to cycle a 219-bit
counter through all its possible states.
To enumerate all possible 256-bit (32-byte) keys, then, would need the
energy equivalent of 237 ≈ 137, 000, 000, 000 supernovae. That’s roughly
the number of stars in the Milky Way, so an attack like this would require
burning up a decent-sized galaxy. Even a highly advanced civilisation
would wince a bit at that. They might need the galaxy to live in, for
example.
And packing all that energy into too small a volume would create a black
hole, so the computer would have to be very large, which makes it slow,
because even signals at the speed of light would take a long time to travel
across it. So Galactic Emperor Eve, as powerful as she is, is still going to
have a hard time cracking Alice’s 256-bit key.
To put it another way, sufficiently long keys make brute-force cracking a
poor choice of strategy. It would always be far cheaper for Eve just to steal
the key, or to bribe someone close to Alice to steal it. (Or to drug them and
hit them over the head with a $5 wrench until they tell her the key.)
Multi-byte keys
Extending our cipher scheme to multi-byte keys, then, would be a long step
towards the kind of ciphers we need in realistic applications. It sounds
difficult, but what’s really involved? Let’s have a think.
Right now, the enciphering process is something like this: for each byte of
the plaintext, we add the key byte to it to yield the corresponding byte of
the ciphertext.
Embiggening the key
Suppose we had a two-byte key, though. Now what would we do? For the
first byte of the plaintext, we’d add the first byte of the key. For the second
byte of the plaintext, we’d add the second byte of the key. That’s
straightforward.
And for the third byte of the plaintext, we’d go back to the first byte of the
key, and so on. Essentially, we’d just keep looping around the key bytes as
we move through the plaintext. That sounds doable, doesn’t it?
And this scheme works just as well with a key of three bytes, or even more.
So let’s say that the key can now be a slice of bytes of any length, instead of
just a single byte.
Updating the test cases
We don’t actually need to change our existing tests that much. We can think
of the current scheme as using a key of length 1, so all our existing 1-byte-
key test cases should still pass when we’ve generalised the code to handle
keys of any length.
First, we need to change our test case struct, because instead of a single
byte for the key, we want to supply a slice of bytes. Here goes:
And the first test case is easily updated to suit this new type definition:
var cases = []struct {
    key        []byte
    plaintext  []byte
    ciphertext []byte
}
This part is worth looking at more closely:
The curly braces indicate that we’re giving a []byte literal (in this case, a
slice of just one element, the number 1). This looks very like converting
something to a []byte, as we do with the other two fields, but that uses
parentheses, not curly braces.
Let’s delete the other cases for now, since this will be enough to get us
started, and we can come back and fill in some more demanding test cases
later.
Bytes in, bytes out
The test currently doesn’t compile, so let’s address that problem first:
cannot use tc.key (variable of type []byte) as byte value in 
argument to shift.Encipher
That makes sense. After all, we’re saying that Encipher will need to take a 
[]byte as the key now, not just a single byte.
So let’s make that change to the function signature:
We’ll see similar compile errors in the tests for Decipher and Crack, of
course, but that’s expected. Let’s comment out those tests for now, and
{
    key:        []byte{1},
    plaintext:  []byte("HAL"),
    ciphertext: []byte("IBM"),
},
key:        []byte{1},
func Encipher(plaintext []byte, key []byte) (ciphertext []byte)
