In other words, if there are N possible messages, then the entropy of any
particular choice of message is the number of bits required to uniquely
express which of those possibilities you chose. Equivalently, it’s the number
of coin tosses required to generate that message.
Note that this needn’t be the same as the number of bits in the message
itself. Some of those bits might be redundant: that is, they don’t add
anything to the unique information content of the message.
This is true of English texts as well. You might have seen the old billboard
adverts for a secretarial college which said something like this:
F U CN RD THIS, U CAN BCM A SEC & GT A GD JB W HI PA
And you can read it, right? That’s the point: English spelling is redundant
enough that we can remove many of the letters without impairing the
content of the message.
That’s a good thing for us in general, but it’s not so good in the context of
cryptography. If a key contains redundant bits, for example, then by
definition those bits don’t contribute anything to the security of the key. We
should subtract them from the effective length of the key for cryptographic
purposes.
A 256-bit key that contains 250 redundant bits is really no more secure than
a 6-bit key: it just looks as though it is. So we would say that, even though
the key is 256 bits long, its entropy—the number of useful bits—is only 6.
Entropy of digital messages
This gives us a powerful way of calculating just how hard Eve’s task of
brute-force guessing will be, for a given key or message. It even applies to
things that are non-textual in nature.
For example, suppose Alice wants to send a photo privately to Bob. We
won’t be so intrusive as to ask what’s in the photo, but we would like to
know how much entropy there might be in Alice’s message.
If Eve wants to peep on Alice and Bob’s encrypted communications, this is
equivalent to asking how many possible plaintexts she has to consider if she
doesn’t know the cipher key. So, can we work it out?
Well, the raw sensor data from Alice’s camera might be something like
100MiB per frame, but as we now know, the entropy will probably be
somewhat less. Image data usually contains some redundancy.
Pictures often contain a lot of adjacent pixels of the same colour, so Alice
may be able to compress the image file without losing any information. For
example, run-length encoding specifies that a given pixel should be
repeated a number of times. If the image contains many long runs of
identical pixels, it can be compressed a lot, but the original image can still
be recovered exactly.
Compression
And this is another way of thinking about entropy: it’s what’s left after
you’ve applied as much of this lossless compression as possible.
You can still go ahead and apply lossy compression too, of course, but
unlike lossless compression, that does reduce the entropy of the message.
That’s often okay for data such as images or movies, since what’s lost in
lossy compression is usually information we can manage fairly well
without.
For example, many image compression schemes sacrifice some of the
dynamic range of the image (the maximum difference in brightness
between dark and light areas). Or they give up some of the original colour
depth: the range of available colours for each pixel. Digital sensors can
discriminate finer shades of colour than the human eye, so we can lose a
surprising number of bits per pixel without affecting the image too
noticeably.
The same principle applies to compressing music, voices, or other sounds.
Humans don’t hear frequencies above about 20KHz very well, so we can
remove most such frequencies from a digital music file without making it
sound terrible. Indeed, the worse the sound quality you’re willing to accept,
the more you can compress the audio data.
Effective lossy compression, then, depends on knowing something about
the domain of the data you’re dealing with. If it’s still images or video, you
can take advantage of the characteristics of the human eye to eliminate
some less important information. If it’s audio, you can do the same by
knowing about the differential frequency response of the ear, and so on.
Enciphered data
So what about compressing enciphered data? In principle, that shouldn’t be
possible. Every bit of the ciphertext should be essential for reconstructing
the plaintext. Any redundant bits, by definition, can be removed without
affecting the decipherability of the message.
Redundancy is great when we want our message to be easily understood, as
in the billboard example, or in circumstances of noisy or imperfect
transmission. But when we want to conceal the message, the same
reasoning implies that there should be little or no redundancy in the
ciphertext.
It shouldn’t be possible to compress the ciphertext by much, then, because
there should be no redundant bits to remove.
Identifying ciphertexts
This is something it’s useful for Eve to know, too. As she pores over the
stream of intercepted binary data from Alice and Bob’s communication
channel, her first challenge is simply to identify which of the messages are
actually enciphered.
Many of them won’t be, so how can Eve tell if a given sequence of bits
represents ciphertext or not?
That’s easy: she can try to compress it! If this doesn’t appreciably reduce its
size, then either it’s already compressed, or it’s ciphertext (or both).
Complexity
This idea of stripping out redundant information gives us another
interesting way of thinking about the entropy of a key or message.
Suppose Alice wants to send Bob a list of all the positive, even integers less
than a million. What’s the most efficient way she could do that?
Describing sequences
The obvious, but inefficient, way would be to simply write them all out:
2, 4, 6, 8...
But that would be a long message: many millions of bytes. And we
instinctively recognise that this long-windedness isn’t necessary.
Because the concept of “positive and even numbers” is familiar to most
people, Alice could use it to shorten her message:
Dear Bob, 
 
I hope this letter finds you well. I am writing to inform you of 
the positive, even integers less than one million. 
 
I beg to remain, 
Your obedient servant, 
Alice
Perhaps this message could be made even shorter, at the risk of being
slightly less courteous, but you see the point, I’m sure.
Instead of laboriously writing out every even number, all Alice has to do to
convey that information to Bob is to unambiguously describe that set of
numbers instead.
A generating algorithm
In a sense, what she’s sending him is not the list of numbers itself, but a
kind of recipe for producing it. Or, as a computer scientist would say, an
algorithm.
Although she didn’t say so explicitly, Alice is telling Bob that if he writes
out all the positive, even integers less than one million, he will have the list
she wants to communicate to him. Because the numbers form an easily-
described sequence, it’s much more efficient to send the description than it
is to send the sequence itself.
To eliminate any ambiguities or uncertainties, Alice could make this
description so explicit that even a machine could understand it. This would
naturally take the form of a computer program.
It happens that we know a very good programming language she could use,
so we might suggest to her something like the following:
Bob doesn’t need to know how any of this works, or even to understand Go
code. He can simply copy and paste it into the Go Playground, or a text file,
and run the program. The result is, of course, the message that Alice
intended to communicate:
2, 4, 6, 8...
package main
import "fmt"
func main() {
    for i := 1; i < 1_000_000; i++ {
        if i%2 == 0 {
            fmt.Print(i, ", ")
        }
    }
}
The shortest program that describes a sequence
Now, although this program is a little longer than the English words “the
positive, even integers less than one million”, it is very precise. It’s also a
great deal shorter than writing out all the numbers in full. In fact, it takes up
just 123 bytes, or 984 bits.
So Alice can send Bob just 984 bits of information, and contained within
them is everything necessary to reconstruct the original message (except for
a Go compiler, of course).
This, then, is a very effective kind of lossless compression. Instead of
sending the data itself, send a program that generates the data.
This is a good way to discover how much entropy is contained in a
message, isn’t it? For a given string of bits, let’s say, we can ask “What is
the shortest program that generates exactly these bits?”
Kolmogorov complexity
This measure is called the Kolmogorov complexity, or algorithmic entropy
of the message. When we have to pay by the bit to transmit some message
s, we want its Kolmogorov complexity K(s) to be as low as possible, to
minimise our phone bill.
Some apparently very long messages—such as the sequence of integers in
our example—turn out to have a very low K. This is equivalent to saying
that they can be losslessly compressed into a much smaller message.
Indeed, many infinite sequences are like this, such as:
all the even integers
all the integers
the digits of π
and so on. All these sequences can be completely described by very concise
programs, making them very compressible (infinitely so, indeed).
How does this low entropy relate to randomness? While the integer
sequences don’t look random, the digits of π certainly do:
3.14159265358979323846264338327950288419716...
There’s apparent complexity here, but in fact the sequence is completely
described by a very regular-looking formula:
$$ \frac{\pi}{4} = 1 - \frac{1}{3} + \frac{1}{5} - \frac{1}{7} + \cdots $$
And I don’t even really need to send you the formula. I can just say “pi”,
and you’ll know what I mean. That’s enough information for you to extract
any specific set of digits you need, given enough time and computer power.
This really highlights the difference between information and entropy,
doesn’t it? π would take an infinite number of bits to write out in full, but I
can completely specify the values of all those bits by a single Greek letter,
which takes 32 bits to encode in a Go program.
Therefore, in this particular scheme the entropy of π is just 32 bits. It
wouldn’t make a good encryption key!
Complexity from simplicity
Similarly, consider the famous Mandelbrot set:
(image by Wolfgang Beyer)
This looks complex, but it’s generated from this simple formula:
z → z2 + c
According to Kolmogorov, a system is only as complex as its simplest
description, and this description is pretty simple!
That’s the opposite of what we want for a cryptographic key, though. A key
that looks long and complex, but that is completely described by a short and
simple rule, is a gift for Eve, and thus a disaster for Alice. Such a low-
entropy key is insecure.
The security of an algorithm rests in the key. If you’re using a
cryptographically weak process to generate keys, then your whole
system is weak.
—Bruce Schneier, “Applied Cryptography”
Security
Not all complexity is illusory, though. Some complex-looking things really
are complex: they have a very high K, meaning that they contain a lot of
entropy.
Randomness is high entropy
For example, consider these lists of numbers: the diameters of each sand
grain on every beach in the world, or the masses of each star in the galaxy.
These are high-K messages: the shortest program to generate them would be
no shorter than the messages themselves.
This gives us another clue about what makes random sequences random:
they contain a lot of entropy. Equivalently, they have high Kolmogorov
complexity.
To say that you can’t write a short program to generate a given sequence is
the same as saying that the sequence is unpredictable: that is, random.
While the digits of π look random, they aren’t, because they form a
completely predictable sequence.
Key generation
The reason this is significant for things like passwords and keys is that
Eve’s chance of guessing them is directly related to the amount of entropy
they contain.
Even if Alice’s password is a million bits long, it won’t be very secure if
most of those bits are redundant. For example, maybe the whole bit-string
can be generated by a program no more than 128 bits long. This is the same
as saying Alice’s key contains only 128 bits of entropy, even though it looks
much longer.
To break Alice’s key, Eve only has to search the space of 128-bit programs,
not the space of 1-million-bit numbers. Alice would have done better to
simply toss a coin a million times (or even just 129 times) to generate her
key.
Sure, she might end up by pure chance with a very low-K number, such as
all zeroes, or alternating ones and zeroes. But such numbers are a
vanishingly small subset of the 21, 000, 000 possible keys. Most of these,
statistically, won’t form easily-described predictable sequences.
Choosing random bits, then, is a good way to create secure keys, because
by definition they have a lot of entropy.
Pragmatic non-determinism
But how can we choose bits randomly with a program? A computer can’t
toss a coin, after all. Or can it?
I mean, the result of a coin toss isn’t unpredictable in principle. If you knew
the exact shape and mass distribution of the coin, its initial velocity and
spin, the location and momentum of every air molecule nearby, and so on,
you could work out whether it’s going to land heads or tails.
But, in practice, you don’t, so you can’t.
The reason a coin toss is “acceptably” random for most human purposes is
that even though the result is deterministic, actually determining it is more
trouble than anyone’s usually willing to go to. This is because it’s the result
of a chaotic system. “Chaos”, in the mathematical sense, means that the
way such a system evolves over time is highly sensitive to initial
conditions.
That’s true of many processes in the physical world, in fact. Reality has a
lot of decimal places. It doesn’t take many interactions between physical
things for the results of future measurements to become, in practice,
impossible to calculate with any useful level of accuracy. That’s why our
ability to predict the weather falls off so sharply with time.
A coin toss is a good example, because a small difference in the force with
which the coin is tossed could change a heads outcome to a tails, or vice
versa. Similarly, tiny air movements or slight differences in the weight
distribution of the coin can have a large effect on the result.
