And now the payoff. We’ll reattach the enciphered image to its header,
creating a new, valid PPM file:
Here’s the result, opened in an image viewer:
Wow. That’s terrible. Far from obscuring the original image, the encryption
hardly seems to have altered it at all. The background went black, and the
eyes went a bit swirly, but that’s basically it.
Muddying the waters
If we hoped that Eve wouldn’t be able to spot that Alice’s message is a
picture of a devil gopher, the result is disappointing. Indeed, Eve doesn’t
need to break our cipher scheme at all, whether by brute-forcing the key, or
otherwise. All she needs to know is that the ciphertext contains image data,
and she’d be able to reconstruct something like the picture we just saw.
go run ./cmd/encipher -key \
  0101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101 
  < imgdata.txt >enciphered.bin
cat header.txt enciphered.bin >test.ppm
So what’s gone wrong? We deliberately chose a “low” key: one that doesn’t
perturb the plaintext very much. It just adds one to the value of every byte.
Maybe that’s why it’s so shatteringly obvious what the enciphered picture
represents.
Let’s try the process again, only this time we’ll use a randomly-chosen 32-
byte key. That should perturb the image data a lot more, and hopefully
obscure it more effectively.
In fact, to avoid any worries about whether or not the local computer has a
good enough source of randomness, I’ve used the qrand tool, which we met
in the previous chapter, to generate a key of truly cosmic randomness:
8e8c2771be5c2bb10d541a5bf6aa51203e0bce2d6d4fa267afd89a6e20df11f1
You can use any method you like, including tossing a coin 256 times. So,
here we go again with the new key:
And the result:
qrand 32
go run ./cmd/encipher -key \
  8e8c2771be5c2bb10d541a5bf6aa51203e0bce2d6d4fa267afd89a6e20df11f1 
  < imgdata.txt >enciphered.bin
cat header.txt enciphered.bin >test.ppm
Hmm. It’s okay. Not great.
You can definitely still see at least the outlines of the original image. It’s
scrambled the colours a bit, but it’s nowhere near the ideal “random noise”
image that we were going for.
But this was enciphered using the longest practicable key, generated using
the randomest numbers in the universe. So why does it still really look like
a devil gopher?
What’s wrong with this picture?
Well, the answer is simple, and we’ve already talked about it in previous
chapters: we’re repeating the key. Even though 32 bytes is long for a key,
it’s a tiny fraction of the data in our image: about 0.05%.
This 32-byte repeat is clearly visible in the “enciphered” image as a regular
stippling effect. Because there are regularities in the original image with a
much longer “wavelength”, if you like, this 32-byte perturbation doesn’t do
much to hide them.
So, while some encryption is clearly happening, is this good enough? I
think not. If Alice wants to send top-secret blueprints or schematics, for
example, it’s no good just stippling them a bit and shuffling the colours.
Line drawings and diagrams would still be clearly visible to Eve in the
enciphered message. Maybe even text, if it’s in a big enough font.
What can we do? Use a longer key, maybe?
Mallory in the middle
Actually, there’s nothing wrong with the key. The problem here is the
operating mode of our cipher. The way we handle each block is pretty
simple-minded: we just encipher (or decipher) it independently, by
combining it with the key.
ECB: a block-headed operating mode
That means, as we’ve already seen in previous chapters, that a given input
block always produces the same output block. In fact, you could make
enciphering and deciphering very fast by simply generating all the possible
input-output mappings in advance, as a lookup table.
Such a code book would be easy to use. Given a block of plaintext, for
example, Alice could just look it up in the book. Every 32-byte block is
equivalent to some large integer, as we know, so all she’d need to do is find
this page number in the book, read off the corresponding block of
ciphertext, and send it to Bob.
The trouble, as we’ve just seen, is that the blocks are typically very small
relative to the message. That means if there is structure in the message on a
larger scale, our scheme can’t do much to hide it.
For example, in the devil image, there are long sequences of pixels of the
same colour, such as the white background, or the red body of the gopher.
Wherever a block of white pixels occur together in the plaintext, they’ll
produce a certain block of pixels in the ciphertext, and that ciphertext block
is always the same.
So, while Eve might not be able to reconstruct the precise original colour of
those pixels, just the repeating pixel patterns themselves are enough to give
away a lot of valuable information about the image. We need to fix that.
Specifically, we need a better operating mode. It turns out the one we’re
using, namely “just combine each block with the key”, has a name: it’s
called Electronic Code Book (ECB). That’s because it acts like a physical
code book, as we’ve seen, in that the same input always maps to the same
output.
This is a serious weakness, because if Eve can collect or generate such a
code book, she can use it to trivially decipher any message. All she has to
do is look up the number corresponding to a particular ciphertext block, and
read off the corresponding plaintext.
Introducing Mallory
And there’s another problem with ECB-encrypted messages. To illustrate it,
let’s introduce another member of the traditional cryptographic theatre
company: Mallory.
Like Eve, Mallory is an adversary of Alice and Bob’s. Whereas Eve can
only read Alice and Bob’s ciphertexts, Mallory can read them and also
potentially modify them in transit.
Block replay
Suppose Mallory sells Alice a car for $1000, and Alice pays for it with an
electronic funds transfer via her banker, Bob. This is encrypted, naturally,
but Mallory can spy on and record the transmitted ciphertext. While they
can’t recover the plaintext without the key, it doesn’t matter, because they
already know what it says: in effect, “transfer $1000 from Alice’s account
to Mallory’s.”
Mallory can now carry out a replay attack: they simply re-transmit the same
ciphertext block to Bob the banker’s computer. Bob obediently deciphers
the message and carries out what he believes is Alice’s new instruction.
Jackpot for Mallory! Another $1000 in their account.
And Mallory can keep doing this as often as they like. All they need to do is
record and replay the single block of the ciphertext conversation that
contains Alice’s transfer instruction.
Because the cipher is operating in ECB mode, the same message always
enciphers to the same ciphertext block, so the bank has no way to know that
the replayed blocks are not genuine.
Dropping and modifying blocks
Mallory can work other kinds of mischief with Alice’s cipher traffic. For
example, suppose Mallory buys a laptop from Alice for $1000, and pays by
electronic transfer. If they can identify the specific block containing the
transfer instruction, they can simply delete it from the sequence of blocks,
so that Bob never receives it.
As far as Alice knows, though, the transfer has been made. She won’t
realise what has happened until the money fails to show up in her account,
by which time Mallory may be long gone.
In this case, the vulnerability is slightly different: it depends on the fact that
each block in ECB mode is completely independent of those that went
before. Thus, there’s no way for Bob to know that a block has been
removed by Mallory, just as there’s no way for him to know if Mallory is
repeating a block.
Mallory can also modify blocks, though how useful this is to them depends
on the specific cipher in use, and other details such as the padding scheme.
Suffice it to say that ECB mode offers no protection against this general
class of attack, which is why it’s rarely used in real cryptographic systems.
We need something a little more sophisticated. Specifically, we need to
make it so that the same plaintext block doesn’t always produce the same
ciphertext block.
More sophisticated modes
So what other operating modes could there be? I mean, we still need to
combine each block of plaintext with the key, so what else could we throw
into the mix, to spice things up a bit? It would need to be something that
changes with every block, to avoid the repetitious “code book” problem.
Counter mode (CTR)
One simple idea is to use a counter: just increment some number every time
we encipher a new block, and combine that number with the key and
plaintext. Just using a simple sequence number on its own wouldn’t add
much spice to the dish, admittedly, but with a few extra tweaks, it can be
quite effective. This mode of operation is called CTR (it doesn’t stand for
anything, it’s just short for “counter”).
In ECB mode, the only input to each block is the plaintext and the key. In
CTR mode, we add an extra input: the counter value. However, we could
invent other modes where the extra input doesn’t have to come from a
counter: it could just be random data, or the wall-clock time, or any other
value that changes frequently.
Nonces
This extra input is sometimes called a nonce, from the expression “for the
nonce”, meaning some one-off value that won’t be re-used. The point, of
course, is that if we did re-use the same value for every block, we’d just be
back in plain old ECB mode, and we wouldn’t be able to foil Mallory’s
replay attacks.
The nonce doesn’t need to be secret. Bob needs to know it for each block,
so that he can decipher the block. If it’s a counter value, he can just keep
count of the blocks, or we could include the nonce value before the
beginning of each block.
Either way, Mallory will know it too, but that doesn’t matter: without the
key, they still won’t be able to decipher any block. Bob, though, has the key
and the nonces, so he can.
Cipher Block Chain (CBC)
One interesting value we could use as the extra input to each block is… the
previous block! This is rather elegant, because we don’t need to maintain a
counter, or otherwise generate a unique nonce value for each block. Instead,
we simply use the ciphertext of the previous block that we just enciphered.
In this mode, then, the input to the cipher for each block consists of:
1. The key
2. The plaintext for this block
3. The ciphertext for the previous block
These are all combined to produce the ciphertext for this block—which will
be used as the nonce for the next block, and so on.
This cleverly avoids the “same plaintext, same ciphertext block” problem.
Each new block of ciphertext we generate will be different, even if the
plaintext is the same as the previous block’s. And if Mallory tries to replay
a block, Bob won’t be fooled. He’ll know that something nefarious has
happened, because he won’t be able to decipher the repeated block or
anything after it.
Mallory also can’t drop, add, or modify blocks, for the same reason—at
least, not without being detected by Bob. Each valid block depends for its
decryption on the previous one, and so on, forming a chain of linked blocks.
A blockchain, indeed, which is where that term comes from.
Thus, this operating mode is known as Cipher Block Chain (CBC).
Initialization Vector (IV)
However, this only partially solves the “same plaintext, same ciphertext”
problem:
The block-by-block problem is solved by making each block’s
encrypted value depend on all of the previous blocks but the larger
message-by-message problem remains because the same full message
will still encrypt to the same value.
—Azeem Bande-Ali, “Intuition for Cryptography”
In other words, if the entire message is the same as one Alice has previously
sent, then the first block will be the same, so its ciphertext will be the same,
too. And since every block depends on the previous one, all the blocks will
end up the same. Mallory could simply replay the entire message instead of
an individual block.
That’s because, for the first block, we have no previous ciphertext to use as
the nonce input. What could we do? Where could we get some suitable data
from?
The answer is that it doesn’t matter: random data will do. We just need a
block’s worth of junk bits to get the blockchain started. Again, it doesn’t
have to be kept secret: we’ll be sending this initialization vector (IV) to Bob
in the clear, along with the ciphertext message.
Generating a secure IV
To generate the IV, we can just grab some bits from the system entropy
pool, or toss some coins. Now the same message won’t produce the same
ciphertext even with the same key, so long as it has a unique IV.
If you’re really paying close attention, though, you might wonder what
happens if Mallory modifies the IV in transit. Wouldn’t that make the whole
message unreadable for Bob?
Well, no: remember, the IV is only used to encipher the first block. After
that, the input to each block is the ciphertext of the previous block, which
won’t have changed. Yes, Bob will fail to decipher the first block, or
decipher it incorrectly, but he’ll still be able to read all the other blocks.
And there are ways that Alice and Bob can protect their messages from
being secretly modified by Mallory at all, which—spoilers!—we’ll talk
about later on in this book.
Implementing CBC mode
First, let’s see how to improve our shift cipher by operating it in CBC
mode. We could write a bunch of code to do everything we’ve just
described: mingle each block’s plaintext with the previous block’s
ciphertext, and so on. But there’s no need: once again, the standard library
has done the work for us.
The crypto/cipher package contains code that will take a block cipher—
that is, anything that implements cipher.Block—and give us an “encrypter”
object that operates the cipher in CBC mode. That object, naturally enough,
is an implementation of cipher.Mode.
Just as a quick reminder, since we last saw it a few chapters ago, here’s an
edited snippet from the code we currently have in our encipher tool:
Taking this step by step, here’s what happens:
1. We use the key to create a cipher
2. We use the cipher to create an encrypter
3. We use the encrypter to encipher the plaintext
Enciphering in CBC mode
We actually don’t need to change the code that much to use CBC instead of
ECB mode, now that we’ve discovered ECB is a bust. The main difference
is that, instead of calling our own function shift.NewEncrypter, we’ll call
the standard library’s cipher.NewCBCEncrypter.
However, we now need to supply an IV, along with our block cipher, so the
call will look something like this:
block, err := shift.NewCipher(key)
...
enc := shift.NewEncrypter(block)
...
enc.CryptBlocks(ciphertext, plaintext)
...
