enough? I mean, it’s not really random: it’s derived from objective
measurements of real-world events, via a deterministic PRNG algorithm. Is
this “fake randomness” actually secure?
Security is relative
Well, you better hope so, because your own online security depends on it!
And, as we’ve discussed throughout this book, it’s never a case of “secure,
or not secure”: it’s all relative. Specifically, the security of a given key or
message is relative to the amount of effort an attacker is likely to expend
trying to break it.
For example, if Eve wants to spy on Alice’s crypto keys, she could do it by
injecting some malicious software into Alice’s computer. It doesn’t matter
what the software does: let’s say it hijacks the operating system call that
reads from the entropy pool. Every time Alice runs a program to generate
her new key, Eve intercepts the “random” bits she read from the operating
system.
But if Eve has this level of access to Alice’s computer, she doesn’t even
need to bother cracking Alice’s message traffic. She can exfiltrate, read, and
perhaps even modify Alice’s private files. When Alice uses her cipher
program to encrypt a message to Bob, Eve can read the plaintext as Alice
types it in.
So cryptography based on a personal computer’s system entropy pool is
reasonably secure against attackers who don’t have access to that computer.
And, sure, Alice’s keys and ciphers are probably vulnerable even without
that access if Eve is simply willing to spend enough money and time to
crack them.
You don’t need to outrun the bear
But, as we’ve also established, the best way for Eve to spend that money is
almost certainly not on brute-force attacks. Instead, she should just call up
Alice and trick her into giving up the key (“This is, uh, Evelyn, from IT?
Yeah, we have a network issue over here. I’m gonna need you to go ahead
and change your password to ADMIN for me.”).
Or she could just wait in the basement parking structure of Alice’s office
and threaten her with a wrench. Or send Alice an email with a link to a fun
meme (“The dog is in a little bag! That’s so adorable!”) that actually
compromises her computer. Or sneak into Bob’s house and read Alice’s
messages after he’s deciphered them. Or… you get the point.
It’s like the old story about two hikers threatened by an angry bear. They
don’t need to outrun the bear. Each of them just needs to outrun the other.
Similarly, you don’t need your keys and ciphers to be literally uncrackable
(just as well, since they can’t be). You just need them to be hard enough to
brute-force that it’s never the enemy’s best option.
Since, as we’ve discussed, the security of a key depends critically on the
randomness of the bits used to generate it, the same applies to your source
of randomness. It doesn’t need to be perfectly random, only unpredictable
enough that it’s not worth your enemy’s time to try to predict it. And a
decent PRNG seeded by environmental noise is good enough for this.
Keeping secrets from the gods
But, just for fun, could we do better? Is it always just a case of making
Eve’s brute-forcing so expensive that she resorts to the $5 wrench instead?
Or is there a source of truly random bits in the universe? Can we use it to
outrun not just Eve, but the bear?
Hardware entropy sources
We talked about “environmental noise” as a source of entropy for operating
systems, but there are other kinds of noise. Thermal noise, for example, is
the electronic interference caused by heat in a conductor. Engineers devote
a lot of time and ingenuity to getting rid of it, but they never quite can. The
upside of this is that when we want some nice, juicy noise, so that we can
harvest its entropy, it’s right there on the chip.
Since entropy has become so valuable in computing, it’s no surprise that
many manufacturers have started to build such hardware-based true random
number generators (TRNGs) directly into CPUs, along with machine code
instructions to read random values from them.
There are other electronical or optical gizmos based on similar principles,
and if you don’t happen to have a CPU with its own hardware RNG, you
can buy an outboard one as a USB device.
Defeating “God Emperor Eve”
Even thermal noise RNGs aren’t really perfectly secure, though. If Eve
could measure the kinetic energy of individual atoms and electrons within
the device, she could, in principle, calculate the exact values of its output
bits. Sure, that’s totally impractical, but we’re not worrying about what’s
practical anymore, just geeking out on physics.
Suppose Eve is an alien with highly advanced technology relative to ours,
for example. Maybe she could remotely and undetectably manipulate each
electron in Alice’s hardware RNG. Is there anything Alice can do to protect
herself against such a high-tech-level attacker? Is there a source of random
bits whose value is unpredictable even in principle?
Surprisingly, the answer is yes. Our best theories of physics say that some
quantum events are truly random (at least, as far as we know). The details
don’t matter for this discussion, but the underlying principle is fundamental:
the results of quantum measurements are impossible to predict.
Quantum measurements
For example, measuring the polarization direction of a photon—a particle
of light—has a binary outcome: you’ll either measure it as one thing or the
other. Let’s call them 0 and 1. You don’t know which it’ll be until you see
the result, and in a sense, the photon itself doesn’t know. It exists in a
superposition of the two states, 0 and 1: both answers are true at the same
time.
When you measure it, our best current theories imply that you yourself
become part of the superposition. One “version” of you remembers
measuring 0, the other remembers measuring 1. Both versions of you are
equally “real”, some would say, but others would disagree.
What (almost) everyone does agree on, though, is that you can’t know the
result in advance, even in principle. There’s no little hidden switch inside
the photon which, if you could only sneak a peek at it, would tell you which
polarization you’re going to measure. The answer is always “both, but in
different realities”, if you like. Weird, but true.
That means it doesn’t matter how advanced Eve’s alien technology is. Even
if Eve is a hyperintelligent pan-dimensional being who can harness the
energy of black holes and warp spacetime to travel faster than light, she still
can’t predict the measurement of a single quantum bit with better than 50%
accuracy. Even gods have their limits, it seems.
A quantum randomness source
Quantum randomness, then, is a perfect source of cryptographic entropy, to
the best of our knowledge, and like everything else these days, you can get
it on the internet. The nice people at Australian National University have
hooked up their hardware RNG to a server with an API that you can call to
get as many random bits as you want.
So, if you want to generate a password that’s random enough to defeat even
Hyperintelligent Pan-Dimensional Eve, you can use the qrand Go package
to do it:
// Sign up here to get your API key:
// https://quantumnumbers.anu.edu.au/
rnd := rand.New(qrand.NewSource(qrand.NewReader(apiKey)))
password := make([]byte, 32)
for i := range password {
    password[i] = chars[rnd.Intn(len(chars))]
(Listing password)
Generating quantum keys
And it’s even easier to generate a 32-byte cipher key; for example, one we
could use with our shift cipher:
This is just for fun, though: it wouldn’t seriously impede God Emperor Eve,
because presumably she could just read the bits off the wire as they arrive
over your internet connection, or as they’re generated at the ANU data
centre. A local source of randomness, such as your system entropy pool,
even if it’s slightly less random than qrand data, is ultimately more secure
because it offers fewer opportunities for interception.
}
fmt.Println(string(password))
q := qrand.NewReader(apiKey)
buf := make([]byte, 32)
_, err = q.Read(buf)
if err != nil {
    fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
    os.Exit(1)
}
fmt.Println(hex.EncodeToString(buf))
14. Chains
The greatest trick the Devil ever pulled was convincing the world he
didn’t exist.
—“The Usual Suspects”
We’ve now considerably strengthened our shift cipher by switching to long
keys: so much so, indeed, that it would take many times the age of the
Universe to crack them by brute force alone. And we’ve explored some
sources of entropy and randomness that will help to ensure that Eve can’t
predict these keys by attacking a weakness in the generating algorithm.
So let’s see how effective our cipher really is at concealing the contents of
Alice and Bob’s messages. After all, if Eve can still get useful information
from an enciphered message without cracking the key, that would be a
problem. And maybe she can.
Visualising the problem
Let’s try enciphering our little devil gopher image using the latest version of
the encipher tool. But first, a reminder of what he looks like in plaintext
form:
Clearly we want the enciphered image to look as different from this as
possible. The ideal ciphertext, indeed, would be an image whose pixels are
indistinguishable from random noise.
A completely random image
What would that look like? Well, it’s easy enough to generate such an
image, using a simple Go program:
package main
import (
    "fmt"
    "image"
    "image/color"
    "image/png"
    "math/rand/v2"
    "os"
)
func main() {
(Listing randimg/1)
For an image of a specified width and height in pixels, we set each pixel to
a random colour. Here’s the result:
    width, height := 300, 300
    img := image.NewNRGBA(image.Rect(0, 0, width, height))
    for x := range width {
        for y := range height {
            img.Set(x, y, color.RGBA{
                R: uint8(rand.IntN(256)),
                G: uint8(rand.IntN(256)),
                B: uint8(rand.IntN(256)),
                A: 255,
            })
        }
    }
    f, err := os.Create("random.png")
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
        os.Exit(1)
    }
    defer f.Close()
    err = png.Encode(f, img)
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
        os.Exit(1)
    }
}
That really doesn’t look like anything, or rather, it looks like everything! So
that’s the gold standard, if you like. We should be able to encipher an image
in such a way that anyone without the key would have no idea at all what
the image represented. It should always just end up looking like the image
we just saw: a mess of random, high-entropy noise.
Separating metadata and pixel data
One thing about enciphering a PNG file, as we saw in an earlier chapter, is
that it doesn’t just scramble the payload—the actual pixel data—it also
scrambles the header. Without the metadata that identifies the file as a PNG
image, we can’t easily open the result in an image viewer to see what it
looks like.
But there’s a way round this. Suppose we take the image file and separate
the header part from the payload. Then we can encipher just the payload
(that is, the pixels). If we reattach the result to the original header, we
should end up with a valid image file, but one whose pixels are enciphered.
That’s a bit tricky to do with PNG or JPG formats, as it happens, but there’s
another format that makes this splitting and rejoining easier: the Portable
PixMap (PPM). It’s a now very obsolete image format, and highly
inefficient, but it was designed to make image data manipulable as text (for
example, for sending images in emails).
And that suits us very well, because it has a useful property: the header data
occupies the first three lines of the file, while the rest is payload. That
makes it easy to separate using standard command-line tools such as head
and tail.
Hidden figures
First, we’ll convert our devil.png image to PPM format. You can find the
result in the example repo as devil.ppm.
He still looks exactly the same (but the file is a lot bigger, and I converted
transparent pixels to white, because PPM doesn’t support transparency):
Next, let’s strip the first three lines from this PPM file and save them as 
header.txt:
We’ll be needing those later. The next step is to copy the image data—all
but the header lines—to another file:
We’re ready to encipher just the image data. Let’s use a key of “all ones”, to
start with:
head -n 3 devil.ppm >header.txt
tail -n +4 devil.ppm >imgdata.txt
