The computed value is called a digest of the message, and as the name
suggests, it’s usually shorter than the message itself. In fact, a digest usually
has some fixed length—for example, 256 bits—regardless of the size of the
message it represents.
The problem of taking some arbitrarily long string of bits (a message), and
turning it into some representative fixed-length string is called hashing, as
in “corned-beef hash”, or “making a hash of things”.
As the name suggests, it involves mixing or muddling up the bits in some
way. So, how do we make a hash of a string of bits?
Well, there are many possibilities: many imaginable hash algorithms. And
that makes sense, since there are many different applications for hashing,
and the choice of algorithm depends on what you want to use it for.
Hash tables
For example, one common application is the hash table: essentially, an
index for quick lookups. Suppose you have a million files stored on a
particular disk. How can you find the particular one you’re looking for?
One simple idea is to just start at the first byte of the disk and keep on
reading sequentially until you find the start of the file you want. That’s easy
to implement, but it performs really badly. On average you’d have to read
half of the entire disk per file access, and that sucks.
Of course you wouldn’t do it this way. Instead, you’d keep a list of all the
files by name, and link each one to its starting position on the disk.
This lookup table (or directory, which is where that term comes from)
means that you can jump straight to the beginning of the file, without
reading any of the intervening data.
This is great, but what happens when the directory itself becomes large? In
our million-file example, a simple-minded table scan means we have to
read every directory entry until we find the one associated with the target
file. On average, that means reading half a million entries per file access.
Not as slow as reading half of the whole disk, but still not great.
What can we do?
Buckets and distribution
Ideally, we’d break up the directory into a number of smaller chunks—
known as buckets—and scan only the chunk that contains the entry for the
target file. But how do we know which chunk that is?
We could imagine allocating a chunk for each initial letter of the filename,
for example, from A to Z. Then, given a target filename to find, all we need
to do is look at its first letter, go straight to the relevant chunk, and scan it
until we find the file. That’s a hash algorithm, of a kind.
In practice, this wouldn’t work very well: the buckets wouldn’t be equally
populated. The “T”, “A”, and “O” buckets would be crammed to
overflowing, since these are the most common initial letters of English
words. Meanwhile, the “X” and “Z” buckets would be mostly wasted space.
That’s why physical filing cabinets don’t allocate equal space to each initial
letter: instead, they often have a single drawer for “VWXYZ”, and so on.
In other words, our imaginary hash function—taking the first character of
the filename—doesn’t produce a uniform distribution. Instead, it suffers
from excessive clustering.
This doesn’t make it unusable, but we can do better. The more uniform a
distribution we can produce, the more efficient our hash table will be.
Collisions
You could imagine being really mean to the owner of such a disk addressing
system by supplying them with a bunch of files whose names are all
specially crafted to produce collisions: that is, to make them all end up in
the same bucket.
For example, such a pathological key set might contain files whose names
all begin with “Z”. Then almost all of the hash table would be empty, while
the “Z” bucket would be horribly overloaded. Thus, every file access would
effectively require a full table scan: just what we wanted to avoid.
So when we’re thinking about the performance of a given hash function, we
have to consider not just the average or common case, but the potential
worst case—especially if we have an adversary who wants to make life
difficult for us.
For hash tables, some collisions are okay: indeed, they’re useful. If there
were no collisions at all, every file would hash to a separate bucket, and we
wouldn’t gain any advantage from having the hash table. On the other hand,
if the buckets grow too full, then searching them for the key we want takes
a long time. So we want a moderate rate of collisions for typical key sets.
Cryptographic hashing
That’s certainly not true in cryptographic applications, though. The whole
point of a message digest is that every message should produce a different
hash. Thus, we want a very large hashspace.
Some collisions are still inevitable, of course: there are only so many
possible hash values for a given number of bits, just as there are only so
many possible keys.
Even an ideal hash algorithm, then, can’t do better than a certain minimum
collision rate. It’s easy to work out what that is: if we start with a given
message, the probability of randomly generating another message with the
same N-bit hash is 1 in 2N.
Alternatively, if we pick both messages at random, the chance of them
having the same hash is 1 in 2N/2.
Therefore, we should make N large enough that this rate of collision is
acceptable, and use an algorithm that doesn’t increase it too much above the
theoretical minimum.
Simple hash functions
Let’s put this into context by trying to implement a very simple hash
function ourselves. First, what kind of input should it take, and what should
it return?
We’ve been working with arbitrary bytes throughout this book, so let’s stick
to that. Our hash function will take a []byte of any size, and it’ll return a 
[]byte of some fixed size (let’s say 8, giving us a 64-bit digest).
A naïve algorithm
What about the algorithm? Well, let’s start with something silly: we’ll just
take the length of the input! We know intuitively that this won’t be any
good, but let’s prove it.
Here’s a test:
(Listing hash/1)
In other words, hashing the input “I love you, Bob” should produce the
value 15, written as a (big-endian) 8-byte slice. Over to you now to make
func TestLenHashReturnsExpectedResult(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    input := []byte("I love you, Bob")
    want := []byte{
        0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00,
        0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x0f,
    }
    got := hash.LenHash(input)
    if !bytes.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Errorf("%s: want %x, got %x", input, want, got)
    }
}
this test pass!
Implementing LenHash
GOAL: Make the test pass by implementing LenHash.
HINT: Computing the length of the input isn’t too hard—we can use the
built-in len function for that. Actually, the only tricky bit might be turning
its result (an int) into a slice of 8 bytes.
Remember when we used the standard library encoding/hex package to turn
a hex value into a []byte? We can use its brother encoding/binary to do
something similar here.
For example, if we have some slice digest, we can encode a value val to it
like this:
This will turn the integer val into its representative bit pattern, and write
those bits into the digest slice. For example, if val is 15, the contents of 
digest should now be:
0x000000000000000F
Have you figured out what to do?
SOLUTION: Here’s something that will do the job:
binary.BigEndian.PutUint64(digest, val)
func LenHash(input []byte) []byte {
    digest := make([]byte, 8)
    binary.BigEndian.PutUint64(digest, uint64(len(input)))
    return digest
}
(Listing hash/1)
Let’s add a simple main function so that we can try it out:
(Listing hash/1)
We read the input from os.Stdin, as we did with our enciphering and
deciphering tools. Then we pass it to LenHash and print the result. Here we
go:
0000000000000010
Looks reasonable. The input is 16 characters long, counting the final
newline, and 16 in decimal is 10 in hex. So, in theory, Alice could use this
tool to compute a hash digest for her ciphertext message to Bob.
Problems with LenHash
But should she? Definitely not, and we already know why: collisions are
extremely likely. Lots of different messages will produce exactly the same
hash. That weakens our confidence that the plaintext hasn’t been corrupted,
accidentally or on purpose.
It also means it’s relatively easy for Mallory to carry out a brute-force
attack on the hash. They can just hash lots of random messages until they
func main() {
    data, err := io.ReadAll(os.Stdin)
    if err != nil {
        fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, err)
        os.Exit(1)
    }
    fmt.Printf("%x\n", hash.LenHash(data))
}
echo "I love you, Bob" | go run ./cmd/hash
find one that hashes to the same value as Alice’s. Then they can replace
Alice’s ciphertext with their own message, and Bob will be none the wiser.
And, even though we’re using a 64-bit hash (N = 64), our hashes have far
from a uniform distribution.
LenHash mostly produces pretty low numbers, even for big inputs. In other
words, we’re not evenly covering the space of possible hashes. Most of the
bits in the hash we just computed are zero, and most of the bits for every
message hash will be zero.
If that’s not clear, think about how long a message would have to be in
order for all its hash bits to be 1 with the LenHash function. Since there are
64 bits, the message would have to be 264 characters long, or about 17
trillion gigabytes. Alice likes to chit-chat, but even she’s unlikely to send
messages this long.
That makes Mallory’s brute-force search far easier than it should be for a
64-bit hash. Indeed, if we assume that most messages will be smaller than
one gigabyte, Mallory only has to search the space of 30-bit hashes, which
is billions of times smaller.
Preimage attacks
Even worse, if Mallory knows the hash algorithm, then they don’t even
need to do a brute-force search. It’s very easy for them to deliberately
construct a message that produces the same hash.
Such a message is known as a preimage, and we want it to be hard to find.
Instead, it’s trivial. Any message of the same length will do:
0000000000000010
Oh no! Now Mallory can substitute a message that says the exact opposite
of what Alice meant to send (ignoring encryption for the moment), and Bob
echo "I hate you, Bob" | go run ./cmd/hash
will compute the same hash value, so he’ll think the message is authentic.
This could spell disaster for Alice and Bob’s blossoming relationship.
We don’t want to make it quite this easy for Mallory to sunder these two
hearts, so what would a more sophisticated hash algorithm look like?
A slight improvement
One problem with LenHash, as we’ve seen, is that the hash only depends on
the length of the message, which is something Mallory can easily find out.
What if we made it depend on something about the actual content of the
message instead? For example, what if we added together the values of all
the bytes?
Implementing SumHash
GOAL: Write a function SumHash that produces a digest based on the sum
of the input bytes. It should pass the following test:
(Listing hash/2)
func TestSumHashReturnsExpectedResult(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    input := []byte("I love you, Bob")
    want := []byte{
        0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00,
        0x00, 0x00, 0x04, 0xfb,
    }
    got := hash.SumHash(input)
    if !bytes.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Errorf("%s: want %x, got %x", input, want, got)
    }
}
HINT: We already have code to take some integer and encode it as a slice
of 8 bytes, so all we need to do is loop over the input bytes, adding them up
until we get the grand total. Can you see what to do?
SOLUTION: How about this?
(Listing hash/2)
Testing SumHash
Let’s try this version with our two different input messages. Will they
produce different hashes?
0000000000000505
00000000000004f1
This looks promising! Our new hash algorithm doesn’t produce the same
output if the inputs are the same length. So that makes it harder for Mallory
func SumHash(input []byte) []byte {
    digest := make([]byte, 8)
    var sum uint64
    for _, b := range input {
        sum += uint64(b)
    }
    binary.BigEndian.PutUint64(digest, sum)
    return digest
}
echo "I love you, Bob" | go run ./cmd/hash 
echo "I hate you, Bob" | go run ./cmd/hash
to construct a fake message that hashes to some given value. But is it still
possible? Let’s try.
A preimage attack on SumHash
Suppose we want to produce the hash 0505, which is 1285 in decimal. It
doesn’t matter what our input bytes are, or even how many of them there
are, so long as they sum to 1285. Let’s start with a bunch of z characters:
zzzzzzzzzz
That’s 10 zs, and the character code for z is 122, so 10 × 122 = 1220. That
gets us close. We’re just 65 short, and that’s the code for A, so let’s try this
input:
000000000000050f
Darn. We forgot about the newline character that echo silently appends to its
argument.
Well, the code for newline is 10 in decimal, so we need the character that’s
10 less than A, which is 7. Here we go:
0000000000000505
Bingo! We’ve broken the preimage resistance of our hash function. Sure,
Bob might be a little confused to receive a message like this, but when he
checks the hash value, it’ll be the same as the one Alice computed. We still
need to do better.
The avalanche effect
echo "zzzzzzzzzzA" | go run ./cmd/hash
echo "zzzzzzzzzz7" | go run ./cmd/hash
