Quantitatively, the keyspace of a password of N characters, each chosen
from a set of K possibilities, is:
KN
Making N small (short passwords) is a bad idea, as we already know, but
now it’s clear that reducing K is also a mistake. If you halve the size of K,
for example, the keyspace is reduced by a factor of 2N, and two to the
power of anything gets big fast.
Some policies are helpful, of course: imposing a minimum length on
passwords, for example. Yes, this reduces the keyspace in one way, since
Eve no longer has to bother trying passwords shorter than the minimum, but
there aren’t many of those, so it doesn’t save her much labour.
Indeed, a “long password” policy increases the keyspace much more in
another way, since it prevents Alice from choosing pathologically small N.
The net effect is good for Alice, thus bad for Eve.
Unicode
So if reducing the possible choices for each character of a password is a bad
idea, it follows that increasing them must be a good one. If we don’t restrict
Alice to choosing merely from the 100 or so typeable characters, and
instead allow her to pick any Unicode character, how does that affect the
security of the resulting password?
You know how to answer this question now: by asking another question,
namely “How many Unicode characters are there?” The answer is about
150,000. So a 5-character Unicode password would have a keyspace of
150, 0005 ≈ 8 × 1025, vastly larger than a password restricted to only the
typeable characters.
Sadly, though, the support for Unicode characters in many software systems
is buggy or non-existent. You might even find that a system accepts your
Unicode password, but then refuses to recognise it when you enter it later.
Programmers (especially non-Go programmers) often assume that all text
will be limited to the 128 ASCII characters, and when it isn’t, their
programs usually don’t work. (Try entering a poop emoji in any text field if
you want to see which programs these are.)
A much more reliable way for Alice to make her password harder to guess,
then, is simply to make it as long as possible. Bad programmers can still
defeat her, for example by putting an upper limit on password length, which
is crazy, but many applications have just such a rule. (Is all this bad
password advice coming from Eve’s website? One wonders.)
They can also compromise her security by storing and matching only the
first few characters of the password (many versions of Unix still do this
even today). This is even worse, because it looks like you have a long
password, but you don’t.
Generation
Assuming the system doesn’t mangle or truncate Alice’s password, though,
and that she’s not naïve enough to choose an easy dictionary word, what
should she do to generate the most secure possible password of a given
length?
The answer, of course, is that she should generate it randomly, but what
does that really mean? And how should she do it?
What does “random” mean?
No doubt we already have some intuitive understanding of what “random”
means, but let’s make it a bit more rigorous. For example, suppose I
presented you with the following program as a random number generator:
func random() int {
    return 7
}
You probably wouldn’t be too impressed, but why not? I mean, 7 seems as
random a number as any other. There’s nothing special about it. If you
hadn’t seen the source code, you’d have no way of knowing in advance that
the program would produce the number 7. So, if it isn’t random, why not?
One way to answer this is to run the program a few times, and note that it
always produces the same number. The problem, in other words, is that the
sequence of values it produces is extremely predictable.
Predictability
And the same objection applies to other sequences of numbers that, taken
individually, seem pretty random, but in sequence, reveal their underlying
regularity. See if you can guess the next number in each of these sequences,
for example:
17, 86, 2, 17, 86, 2, 17... 
1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64... 
2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17... 
0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8...
Well, if you can guess it, so can Eve. In a way, programs that produce these
sequences are just as predictable—just as un-random—as the one that
always produces the number 7.
So that’s one important aspect of randomness: it applies to sequences, not
just individual numbers, and it requires that the sequence not be obviously
predictable.
But there seems to be a fundamental problem here. Computer programs are
generally deterministic: that is, given the same inputs, they will produce the
same outputs. How could we write a program that will produce a non-
deterministic—that is, non-predictable—result?
Binary choices
Well, we might start by asking how a human could do the same thing. To
generate a secure password, for example, Alice might toss a coin and use
the result to help her choose a letter. Each coin toss could reduce the
number of choices by half. For example, the first toss might select which
half of the alphabet she should pick from. The next will reduce that set of
characters by half again, and so on.
Alice will need to make at most 5 coin tosses to pick each letter, because a
sequence of 5 tosses has 25 = 32 possible outcomes, more than enough to
cover the 26 letters of the alphabet. If Alice is using a larger character set,
then it will take more tosses to pick each character, but that’s a good thing,
as we’ve seen: the bigger the character space, the bigger the keyspace.
Note that even if Eve knows that Alice is using this password-generating
scheme, that knowledge by itself doesn’t help her learn anything about what
Alice’s key actually is. Unless she can spy on Alice closely enough to see
the outcome of each coin toss, she still has no idea of what letters have been
picked. And if she has that level of access to Alice’s private activities, she
probably doesn’t need to intercept Alice’s messages in any case.
Alternatively, if Alice wants to generate a cipher key, such as the 32-byte
keys we’ve used in the shift cipher, she can use each coin toss to decide a
single bit in the key. 32 bytes is 256 bits, so 256 coin tosses will produce a
suitably random key.
Information
Interestingly, Alice can use the same coin-toss scheme no matter what kind
of information she needs to generate. If she has to choose a random day of
the week, or one of the seven colours of the rainbow, for example, then she
can do so by making just three coin tosses, because 23 = 8.
It’s clear from this that any kind of information can, in principle, be
represented using a certain number of bits (binary choices equivalent to
coin tosses). In fact, this is a useful way of quantifying the amount of
information present in some set of data.
How much information is there in the binary number 1011, for example?
Well, four bits. That’s too easy. What about the word GO? Well, assuming
only uppercase letters are allowed, there are 262 = 676 possible
combinations of two letters. The information content of the word GO is
precisely the information as to which of those combinations has been
selected.
To identify that combination uniquely, we need to represent any number up
to 675, and 210 = 1024, so 10 binary bits would be enough to give each
two-letter word a unique identifier (with plenty of unused identifiers left
over).
We can express the same idea by saying that GO, or any other combination
of two letters, contains slightly less than 10 bits of information. You can
write it down using more bits than that if you choose, of course, but the
point is that these superfluous bits don’t make the keyspace any bigger.
Knowledge
Not all information is random information, as we’ve already seen. For
example, if Alice picks a dictionary word as her password, it doesn’t matter
how long the word is: Eve can easily guess it. The subset of words that are
in the dictionary is small, and Eve only needs to locate Alice’s password
within this small set, not the larger one of all possible letter combinations.
Similarly, if Alice picks a cipher key like this:
1111111111111111
it may look like it contains 16 bits of information, but that depends who’s
reading it. If it’s Eve, and she happens to know that Alice always picks keys
consisting of either all 0s or all 1s, then there are only two possible keys
that Alice could have chosen. So the key itself only conveys one bit of
information to Eve: namely, which of the two possibilities it is.
Alternatively, if Eve knows that Alice always picks keys that are all 1s, then
the space of available keys from Eve’s point of view contains only one
possibility. In that case, the key contains no information at all!
We’ll return to the topic of randomness in later chapters, and we’ll talk a
little about how to measure the exact amount of entropy—of unknown
information—in a given key, and about what sources of entropy Alice could
use to generate good keys.
For now, let’s return to our cipher scheme, and think about a more flexible
way to operate it, using blocks.
8. Blocks
The security of a symmetric cryptosystem is a function of two things:
the strength of the algorithm and the length of the key. The former is
more important, but the latter is easier to demonstrate.
—Bruce Schneier, “Applied Cryptography”
(photo by Mariana Bisti)
Great. We now have a cipher system that works with keys of any length,
and we can crack those keys, given a suitable crib. We’ve come a long way
from zero to cryptography, but there are still a few missing pieces we need
before we’re ready to play.
Block ciphers
First, let’s distinguish between two main kinds of ciphers: block ciphers and
stream ciphers. A stream cipher is very simple in principle: it operates on
data one bit at a time—one binary bit, that is. In other words, given a
particular bit of the plaintext, and a particular bit of the key, a stream cipher
will tell you the corresponding bit of the ciphertext. No context is needed.
This makes stream ciphers highly efficient, but for various reasons it’s often
more convenient to use a block cipher instead. A block cipher, by contrast,
enciphers or deciphers more than one bit at a time. Any number of bits, in
fact. It deals with the plaintext (or ciphertext) in chunks, or “blocks”, of
some arbitrary size.
Block ciphers operate on data with a fixed transformation on large
blocks of plaintext data; stream ciphers operate with a time-varying
transformation on individual plaintext digits.
—R.A. Rueppel, in G.J. Simmons (ed.), “Contemporary Cryptology”
This makes stream ciphers suitable for permanent or long-running
encrypted circuits, such as telecommunications links, and for
implementation in hardware, since the hardware usually “sees” a single bit
at a time.
On the other hand, block ciphers are ideal for implementation in software,
and for handling messages of arbitrary size.
So what kind of cipher is the shift cipher we’ve developed? It’s somewhat
like a stream cipher, because it handles data a byte at a time. On the other
hand, in principle it could be regarded as a block cipher where the block
size is one byte.
However, that’s only in principle, because in practice the code we have
always enciphers or deciphers the whole plaintext (or ciphertext) at once.
Effectively, therefore, the block size is the same as the message size. And,
while that’s simple to implement, it’s not ideal.
Why blocks?
Perhaps you can already see why: if we can’t deal with the data in smallish
chunks, then we have to store all of it in memory at the same time.
For small messages, that might be okay, but for larger messages, it could be
a problem. Suppose we—or Alice—wanted to encipher a 10GiB file, for
example. We might read that data into memory using code like this:
Unfortunately, if we don’t happen to have 10GiB of free memory available,
and we probably don’t, this code will panic. That’s because io.ReadAll
does exactly what it says: it reads all the data, until it sees the end-of-file
(EOF) marker. Only then would we even start enciphering the data, but
we’ll have run out of memory well before this point.
This is silly, isn’t it? We don’t need all the data to be resident in memory
just so that we can encrypt a single byte of it. Indeed, if we had only one
byte of writable memory, so that we were restricted to reading and
enciphering just one byte at a time, that would actually be fine! (It wouldn’t
be very efficient, but never mind.)
Since a block cipher lets us work on the data in chunks of any size we
choose, then, it would make sense to use slightly larger blocks than a single
byte. 32 bytes would be fine, for example, and many ciphers use blocks of
about this size.
The cipher.Block interface
So if we want to adapt our existing code to create a practical block cipher,
we don’t need to change the cipher scheme, as such. We just need to make
the cipher able to operate on data that comes in fixed-size blocks.
And there’s a special interface for that, defined in the standard library’s 
crypto/cipher package:
(crypto/cipher)
plaintext, err := io.ReadAll(os.Stdin)
type Block interface {
    BlockSize() int
    Encrypt(dst, src []byte)
    Decrypt(dst, src []byte)
}
If you’re not familiar with interfaces in Go, don’t worry. You can think of
an interface as defining a kind of “slot” or socket that different-shaped
software components can plug into. Anything that “fits” this interface can
be used in the way that the interface defines.
For example, we could design any kind of cipher we wanted, and as long as
we provide an adapter for it that matches the cipher.Block interface,
anyone can use our cipher with a program that supports that interface.
You can learn all about interfaces and other advanced topics in my book
Know Go—it’s not necessary for what we’ll be doing in this book, but you
might enjoy it all the same.
Plugs and sockets
In Go, an interface is defined as a set of methods that the matching object
must have. In this case, for some type to be a cipher.Block, it must
implement these three methods:
So suppose we created some struct type (shiftCipher, let’s say), and we
gave it at least these three methods. That would be sufficient to satisfy the
interface: that is, any function that takes a cipher.Block as a parameter
would accept an instance of shiftCipher.
Standard library interfaces like this are a terrific idea: think of io.Reader
and io.Writer, for example. They give a big boost to productivity by
allowing us to plug together many different bits of code using standardised
“connectors”. And cipher.Block is another such connector.
Adapting the shift cipher
BlockSize() int
Encrypt(dst, src []byte)
Decrypt(dst, src []byte)
