This distributed ledger will be, in the term of art, eventually consistent. That
is, if you wait long enough, every transaction will show up in every copy of
the ledger, and everyone’s balances will agree. Not moment-by-moment, for
sure, but within a few seconds or minutes, which is fine.
Security
Or is it? I mean, electronic transactions can happen very fast. What’s to
prevent some scammer, Sam, from spending the same Bobcoin twice in
succession?
For example, suppose that Sam has a starting balance of ten Bobcoin, and
they use it to buy a pizza from Pat. But then, moving quickly, before the
transaction has had a chance to propagate across the network, Sam spends
the same ten Bobcoin on an ice cream from Irene.
The double-spending problem
The distributed ledger will eventually reconcile these two transactions, of
course. At that point, Sam will be overdrawn—they’ll have a negative
balance—but maybe they don’t care about that. After all, they have the
pizza and ice cream. It’s Irene who’s actually out of pocket—or Pat,
depending on which transaction the network accepts first.
If Sam wants to make further transactions in the future, there’s nothing to
stop them just opening a new account with a fake name. Then they can
overdraw that account, and so on.
This would be bad news for Pat and Irene, and junk food vendors
everywhere, not to mention the credibility of the Bobcoin system.
Clearly we need some way for Irene to verify that Sam actually has the
money to pay for their ice cream. How could we do that?
Ordering transactions
Suppose Sam opens their account with a deposit of ten Bobcoin, and then
makes two transactions: spending ten Bobcoin on a pizza, and spending ten
Bobcoin on ice cream.
The second of those two transactions should fail, because Sam doesn’t have
any money. But, given that Irene’s computer receives these transactions
after a delay, and in an unknown order, how can she determine which one
came first?
Let’s assume that the stream of transaction data is divided into equal-sized
blocks, for convenience. Now the problem reduces to ordering those blocks.
To put it another way, we need a way to chain the blocks so that we can
detect any out-of-sequence (or modified) block.
Does that sound familiar? It should.
We already know about a kind of blockchain whose ordering is fixed,
because each block depends on the previous one. That would be a block
cipher operated in CBC mode.
But we’re not encrypting the Bobcoin transactions, because they must be
public. How could we use the contents of a given Bobcoin block to produce
a unique input to the next block, in a way that makes it impossible (or very
difficult) to synthesise fake blocks?
That sounds a lot like a job for a hash function, doesn’t it?
The blockchain
And that’s what we use. When each node—each computer in the Bobcoin
network—has received a block’s worth of transactions, it starts trying to
compute the next block. It hashes the contents of the previous block
together with the transaction data, and the result is the next block, which it
then sends out to the network.
Now we have a way for nodes to verify the order of blocks: by verifying
their hashes. Since the hash of any block depends uniquely (or very nearly
uniquely) on the previous block, a given set of blocks can only be verified
in their true order.
This means we can order all transactions, and thus Irene can detect Sam
trying to double-spend their Bobcoin on empty calories. Success!
Well, nearly. There’s still a problem: what if two nodes independently
compute and send out different versions of the “next” block? Won’t the
chain then split into two independently-evolving versions?
To avoid that, a kind of consensus voting takes place. If a node receives two
different candidates for the “current” block, it keeps both of them until it
can decide which is the authoritative block.
Doomed stubs
How can the node decide which block wins this race? Well, sooner or later
it’ll receive another block from the rest of the network. This will be
“chained” to one or other of the two blocks.
In other words, the new block will be verifiable only against the hash of
either Block A or Block B. Whichever it is, that’s what the network
considers to be the authoritative block, and the node can safely discard the
other one.
This doomed “stub” version of the chain might still grow for another block
or two, depending on the speed of propagation, but eventually it will be
discarded. When faced with two competing versions of the chain, nodes
will always opt for the longer one, because it represents the majority
opinion that this is the “correct” chain. More work has gone into it, so the
network votes with its feet—or rather, with its hashes.
Verifying a given transaction, then, is simply a matter of looking at the
block that contains it. The more valid blocks that follow this one, the more
confident we can be that the transaction has been accepted by other nodes.
Since hashing takes some non-zero amount of computing power, it’s in a
node’s interest not to waste time, heat, and money by computing hashes for
a doomed stub. Thus, the network rapidly converges on a single
authoritative ordering of Bobcoin transactions.
To repay nodes for their hard work in keeping the blockchain going, the
node that successfully creates the next block earns a small fee, made up of
the leftover fractional bits of Bobcoin from each transaction. Each node’s
version of the next block includes a transaction in which this fee is paid to
their account. Thus, their reward for winning the race is to have their fee-
earning transaction validated by the rest of the network.
Integrity
In a decentralised scheme like this where each node marks its own
homework, isn’t there a danger of fraud?
Surely all a malicious node has to do is compute the next block, based on a
bogus transaction (“Alice pays Mallory one million Bobcoin”, let’s say),
and then keep this stub chain going by computing all future blocks based on
it (plus the subsequent genuine transactions). What’s to prevent this?
Consensus
First, transactions are signed by the person who makes them, and we’ll talk
more about this in the next chapter. Suffice it to say for now that only Alice
can create a transaction where Alice pays money to someone else, and
anyone can independently verify it.
Second, hashing is hard work. It costs some amount of money to compute
the hash of each block, so the longer this “fake” chain is kept up, the more
it costs Mallory. Eventually it’ll cost them more than they could steal with
the fake transaction.
In effect, Mallory is fighting the combined hashing power of all the other
nodes in the network, which are collaborating to keep the genuine chain
going.
The genuine chain will rapidly become longer than the fake one, because it
simply has more hashing power behind it. Very soon, all nodes will discard
the shorter chain as invalid, and Mallory’s efforts will be for nothing.
Sure, Mallory could recruit other nodes into their Bobcoin-stealing gang,
but they’ll still be defeated by the honest nodes. Only if Mallory can
commandeer more than half of the total hashrate in the network can they
hope to subvert the blockchain.
Such a 51% attack is expensive and infeasible for large networks, which
means that the more nodes join a given blockchain network, the more
secure it is: safety in numbers.
Proof of work
A third way in which malicious blocks are discouraged is to make the
hashing process as slow and expensive as possible, rather like the password
storage hashes we looked at in the previous chapter.
In the case of the real-life Bitcoin network, for example, the hashing
problem is made harder by requiring miners—nodes that want to produce
blocks—to produce a hash value within a specific range.
For example, suppose you’re given some transaction data and asked to hash
it so that the 256-bit hash value is less than, say, a million. Of course you
can only do this by mixing in some extra data of your own—some nonce—
to produce the required value. And since you can’t reverse the SHA-256
algorithm to find the input number you need (it’s preimage-resistant), the
only way you can do it is by guessing.
It’s like a kind of benign brute-force attack, or a version of the “guess the
number I’m thinking of” game for extremely patient players. You just keep
guessing a different value for the nonce and hashing the block until, by pure
chance, your hash value comes out as some number less than 1,000,000.
That might take a while: given the size of the 256-bit hashspace, your odds
of producing an acceptable hash are about one in 1071 for each attempt. It
therefore costs quite a bit of money just to produce each block, making
attempted fraud less attractive. Mining fees are structured so as to make it
more rewarding to mine genuine blocks than fake ones.
In Bitcoin, the required difficulty target is a little easier than our example: at
the time of writing, the chances of producing an acceptable hash are
currently about one in 1064. The difficulty target gradually increases over
time, to keep pace with the expected increase in computing power.
Up in smoke
If I tell you that, despite this astronomical difficulty, a new Bitcoin block is
mined, on average, about every ten minutes, that gives you some idea of the
enormous computing resources devoted to the network.
Tens of thousands of Bitcoin nodes are all hashing as fast as they can, five
hundred billion billion hashes a second, trying to guess a nonce that will
produce a valid hash, and only one node can win that race. All the work
done by the losing nodes is wasted, and simply goes up in smoke. Literally,
since most of the electricity they use comes from burning fossil fuels.
This proof of work scheme, then, depends on wasting a massive amount of
precious energy. Bitcoin alone consumes over 120 terawatt-hours of
electricity every year, which is more than many countries.
In effect, Bitcoin adds another energy-hungry country to the world, and we
don’t really need another one of those.
It seems a shame that the most powerful distributed supercomputer in
human history is being wasted on polluting our atmosphere and heating up
the planet by solving math problems that are totally useless to humanity.
Proof of stake
Proof of work, then, is perhaps the worst idea ever, but fortunately there are
some alternatives in prospect.
One is so-called proof of stake. In this scheme, rather than the most trusted
nodes being the ones that have burnt up the most energy, they are simply
the ones who have the most money. These nodes, the reasoning goes, have
the biggest stake in the network, so they’re least inclined to undermine it.
That’s true to some extent, but those who find the democratising nature of
cryptocurrency appealing may think that this is just another way of rigging
the system in favour of its richest participants. And we have that already:
it’s called “capitalism”.
Clearly we need a fair, efficient way of preventing fraud and double-
spending that doesn’t literally set fire to the planet, and we don’t have that
at the moment. Maybe someone will have a bright idea about this soon.
Maybe it’ll be you.
17. Authentication
Cryptography is the art of transforming information security problems
into key management problems.
—Soatok Dreamseeker, “Database Cryptography Fur the Rest of Us”
In the chapter on hashing, we saw how a secure hash algorithm such as
SHA-256 can be used to create a cryptographic digest of a message.
That’s a good start, but for Alice and Bob to have a reliable way of
exchanging secure mash notes, we’ll need to do a little more. Let’s see why.
Message integrity
The hash digest, or simply “hash”, gives Bob an independent check on the
integrity of Alice’s message. He can compute the hash value of the message
for himself, and compare it with the one Alice attached. If they disagree,
then the message has changed since Alice sent it.
Maybe it was modified by Mallory, or maybe a few bits just got flipped in
transit by an errant cosmic ray. Either way, at least Bob can detect that
something’s gone wrong, and ask Alice to re-send her billet-doux.
But if the hash values agree, Bob can be pretty confident that the message is
the same one that Alice sent, even if it’s sent in clear. There’s no way for
Mallory or anyone else to modify the message in such a way that it hashes
to the same digest, without carrying out a brute-force preimage search.
Hash preimage attacks
While a good hash algorithm, as we’ve seen, does everything possible to
make this brute-force attack hard, it’s still just a matter of time. If Mallory
has a lot of resources to throw at the problem, they can eventually find a
modified message that produces the same hash as Alice’s original. They
might get lucky and find a hash collision on the first try, or it might take
years, but it can be done, and there’s no way to prevent it.
Or is there? What if Alice also enciphers the message, and then sends Bob
the ciphertext, accompanied by its hash? Won’t that frustrate Mallory’s evil
plan?
Well, partly. If the hash value is sent in clear, Mallory can still brute-force a
ciphertext that produces the same hash, which isn’t ideal.
Sure, that ciphertext may not be decipherable at all by Bob, or it might
produce a meaningless plaintext. That’s not as serious as if Mallory could
send a meaningful fake message, but it’s still annoying, and interferes with
Alice and Bob’s communications.
Hashing was supposed to help us with that problem, so clearly there’s a
little more work to do.
Chosen ciphertext attacks
What if Alice enciphers, not just the plaintext, but the plaintext plus its
hash? For example, suppose she starts with the message “I love you, Bob”,
computes its hash, appends it to the message, and then enciphers the whole
thing?
Well, that’s okay on the face of it, but it opens Bob up to something called a
chosen ciphertext attack. This is where Mallory forces Bob to decrypt a
number of ciphertexts of their choosing, and by doing so can gain some
knowledge about the key.
We don’t need to know the exact details of how chosen ciphertext attacks
work against particular cryptosystems. It stands to reason, though, that if
Mallory can send an unlimited number of messages, and Bob keeps
deciphering them, eventually something bad will happen. In fact, this is
known as the Cryptographic Doom Principle.
To prevent this, Bob should never even try to decipher any message that
doesn’t have a valid hash. And that implies that the hash digest must be
readable without any decryption.
If a cipher is like an envelope for a letter, then the hash should go on the
outside of the envelope. That way, Bob doesn’t even have to open the
envelope to know that the message is bogus.
But now we’re back where we started, with Mallory able to brute-force
bogus messages with valid hashes. How can we prevent this, and give Bob
a way to verify that the message really comes from Alice, without also
making him vulnerable to a chosen ciphertext attack?
MAC
One neat idea is for Alice to hash, not just the plaintext, or even the
ciphertext of her message on its own, but the ciphertext plus the key. Then
it’s impossible, or at least very difficult, for anyone without the key to even
verify the hash.
That’s because in order to verify the hash, Mallory needs to compute it, and
that means they need the whole text that Alice used to compute hers. But
they don’t have this, because Alice, naturally enough, doesn’t include the
key in her message.
Bob, of course, has the key, so he can check the hash very easily. All he has
to do is append his own copy of the key to the ciphertext, compute the hash,
