If you can transmit sound, though, why not just send a spoken message
instead of a bunch of beeps?
The answer is that human speech is complex and covers a broad spectrum
of frequencies, meaning that it takes up a lot of bandwidth (or, equivalently,
that it needs a high bitrate). If you’ve ever struggled to understand someone
or to make yourself understood over a poor-quality telephone connection,
you’ll know what I mean.
When there isn’t much bandwidth available, for example in a noisy or lossy
channel such as a long telegraph wire, or a low-power radio transmission,
Morse and other codes are a far more efficient medium than speech for
getting your message through, quickly and reliably.
Note that a code isn’t necessarily intended to hide the contents of the
message; it’s often just a way of shortening it or making it easier to transmit
reliably, as with the Morse code.
Codes can be used to send secret messages, though. For example, if we
want to have a conversation that may be overheard, we might agree
beforehand that the word “tomato” means “enemy in sight”, and that
“parmesan” means “activate the hidden sleeping-gas capsule”. Then I can
send you the following message in clear (that is, without needing to hide its
contents):
TOMATO. PARMESAN.
If the message should be intercepted, the enemy won’t be able to make
anything of it. They’ll probably just assume it’s my shopping list. Note that
it doesn’t matter what code words we choose, only that we both agree on
what they signify.
One drawback of such codes is that the list of code words and their
meanings—the code book—tends to be large, and that makes it difficult to
keep it secure. Should the code book fall into enemy hands, the code
becomes useless until you can arrange to distribute a new code book to all
your agents, which is expensive and time-consuming.
So another kind of encryption—message hiding—is to use a cipher. This
works by substituting, usually, one letter for another, instead of a word or
phrase. If the text is represented digitally (that is, by using numbers to
represent letters), then the cipher operates by transforming one number into
another, but the principle is the same.
A shift cipher
As long as both the sender and receiver (traditionally known as “Alice” and
“Bob”, since that’s slightly more fun than just calling them A and B) agree
on the cipher scheme, or algorithm, they can decrypt each other’s messages.
Let’s see an example. Suppose Alice and Bob agree that every time the
letter A occurs in the plaintext—the original message—Alice will replace it
with B. Each B in the plaintext will be replaced by C, and so on. In effect,
this scheme just “adds one” to each letter to encipher it.
What does a plaintext like HEY BOB U UP look like, when enciphered using
this scheme? If H becomes I, then the first letter of the ciphertext must be I.
The second letter, E, becomes F, and so on. Encipher the rest of the message
for yourself.
How can we decipher such a message, then? Simple: just reverse the
process. For example, suppose Bob sends the following reply:
TVSF CBF DPNF PO PWFS
Can you work out whether Alice and Bob will be getting together tonight?
Of course you can. Just “subtract one” from each letter to recover the
plaintext. For example, T becomes S, V becomes U, and so on.
Key points
You don’t have to always shift the letters by one place; you can choose a
different number if you like. Of course, the person reading the message will
need to know this number too, but you can agree that between you in
advance. Naturally, it needs to be kept secret: anyone who knows this
prearranged value will be able to decipher messages (and encipher them
too).
This key is an important input to the cipher, along with the plaintext.
Indeed, we can think of a cipher as combining the plaintext with the key, in
some arbitrary way, to produce the ciphertext. Deciphering is the reverse of
this process.
Wheels within wheels
A popular children’s toy illustrates this idea: the “decoder ring” or cipher
wheel, constructed from two rotating discs with the alphabet printed around
them. It may not exactly be military-grade encryption, but it’s an easy and
fun way of exchanging secret messages with friends. Just choose your key
(for example, 1) and rotate the outer disc by that number of places, and
you’re ready for enciphering and deciphering.
This kind of scheme—where we shift letters around the alphabet by some
agreed number of places—is called a shift cipher, or sometimes a “Caesar”
cipher, since Julius Caesar is popularly supposed to have used one to keep
his messages secret. Not that it worked out awfully well for him in the end,
but never mind.
Modern ciphers are a bit more complicated in their detailed workings than
Caesar’s shift cipher, but surprisingly similar in principle. So let’s start with
this one and work our way up.
Enciphering
We’ll begin by trying to implement the shift cipher in a Go program. Our
program should be able to take a message, encipher it using the shift cipher,
and print out the resulting ciphertext. And let’s generalise the idea of a
“message” to any arbitrary data. Maybe Julius Caesar didn’t have to worry
about communicating things like graphics, video, or even binary
executables, but we do.
One byte at a time
In general, the most flexible way to represent arbitrary data in Go is as a 
[]byte, that is, a slice of values each of which corresponds to one byte of
data. A slice is the Go name for an ordered collection of values. You can
think of the type []byte as meaning “a bunch of bytes”.
For example, if you open and read a file from disk, or read from a network
connection, you’ll find that you get the data as a bunch of bytes—a []byte
—regardless of what kind of data the bytes actually represent.
So the API to our shift cipher package (let’s call it shift, to be
straightforward) is starting to take shape. We need to be able to accept data
as bytes, transform it using the cipher scheme, and produce the resulting
data as output, again in the form of bytes.
Even with our fairly simple cipher scheme, this still sounds like a hard
problem. I’ll let you into one of the software engineering fraternity’s best-
kept secrets now (make sure no one’s reading over your shoulder):
We don’t like to solve hard problems.
It can be done, of course, but it’s very much a last resort.
Instead, we much prefer to turn a complicated problem into a simple
problem, and solve that first. Then it’s just a case of tweaking our solution
until it works for the original problem, as well as our simplified version.
We’re not the only ones who like to do this; scientists call it the “spherical
cow” technique, after the old joke about the farmer who made the mistake
of asking a physicist for advice on improving milk production. “First,” said
the physicist, after a little thought, “assume a spherical cow…”
Assume a spherical cow
The simplest, most “spherical” version of our problem that we can think of
is just some function that transforms a slice of bytes by enciphering it with
the key of 1. Let’s call this imaginary function Encipher.
For the moment, we won’t worry about using different keys, and we’ll also
punt on the issue of getting the data in and out of the program. Let’s get the
spherical cow working first, then we’ll add things step by step to make it
more realistic.
Before trying to implement any function, though, it’s always important to
have a clear and specific idea of what it should do. Otherwise, it’s easy for
us to get confused by trying to solve two problems at once: what the
function should do, and how it should do it. So let’s take the first problem
first.
It helps to start by writing down a brief sentence or two describing the
function’s behaviour, ideally with specific examples: given some value as
input, what should the function return as a result?
This step forces us to clarify our ideas, makes our assumptions explicit, and
gives us a way of checking that the code we’ll eventually write is correct.
So what sentence could we write to describe the specific behaviour of 
Encipher? We can choose a short message to encipher, and work out the
expected result in advance. Here’s one possibility, for example:
Encipher transforms “HAL” to “IBM”.
Notice how short and simple this statement is. In particular, it says what
happens, but it doesn’t say anything about how it should happen. It doesn’t
specify a key, or a cipher scheme, or anything like that. It describes the
function’s behaviour purely in terms of inputs and outputs, treating 
Encipher as though it were a black box whose inner workings are
completely hidden from the caller.
That’s good, because callers shouldn’t need to know about a function’s
implementation, only its behaviour. In fact, as programmers we reserve the
right to change the implementation later, and so long as it doesn’t change
the behaviour, everything will continue to work just as well as before.
From behaviour to test
To enforce this implementation-hiding, we’ll turn our behaviour sentence
into an automated test, so that whatever we do to Encipher, we’ll always
have a reliable (and quick) method of checking that we haven’t altered its
behaviour in any user-visible way.
I’ve given you a head start by writing a Go test for Encipher that expresses
the behaviour sentence we just wrote. You’ll find it in the example
repository for this book, and here it is:
(Listing shift/1)
Choose your own adventure
Throughout this book, we’ll be working our way gradually towards a full
implementation of the shift cipher, and associated programs. If you like,
you can join in right away and tackle the various code challenges as we
package shift_test
import (
    "bytes"
    "testing"
    "github.com/bitfield/shift"
)
func TestEncipherTransformsHALToIBM(t *testing.T) {
    t.Parallel()
    input := []byte("HAL")
    want := []byte("IBM")
    got := shift.Encipher(input)
    if !bytes.Equal(want, got) {
        t.Errorf("want %q, got %q", want, got)
    }
}
encounter them. If so, read on for instructions on setting up your own Go
project to hold your solutions.
Alternatively, you may prefer to read through the whole book first, focusing
on understanding, then come back and work through the challenges in
order. If you’d like to do it this way, skip to the next section (“A first test”),
and return to this point later, when you’re ready to start coding.
Here’s how to set up a new project for the shift cipher. Create a new folder
on your computer to work in (for example, shift). Open a terminal and,
within that folder, run:
Getting the module name (the argument to go mod init) right is important,
because otherwise people won’t be able to import your package. Replace 
YOUR_GITHUB_ID with your GitHub username.
Create a new file named shift_test.go and paste in the test code from
listing shift/1. Change the import path from:
to:
Now you’re ready to start work. Let’s start by reading through this test to
see what it does.
A first test
If you’ve read The Deeper Love of Go, or if you already have some
experience with Go programming, I’m sure you’ll be able to follow the test
git init
go mod init github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_ID/shift
"github.com/bitfield/shift"
"github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_ID/shift"
code just fine. But let’s walk through it anyway, just as a refresher.
Anatomy of a test
First, all Go files begin with a package declaration saying which package
the file is part of. In this case, it’s the shift_test package.
Next, we import some standard library packages we’ll need: bytes and 
testing.
Because we want to test functions in the shift package, we need to import
that too, under its full import path: github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_ID/shift.
Next, all test functions in Go have names beginning with the word Test,
and this one is no exception. We could name it anything we like (as long as
it begins with Test). Here we’ve chosen to use the behaviour sentence itself
as the name (using “camel case” to avoid spaces, which aren’t allowed in
Go function names).
We call t.Parallel to tell Go that it’s okay to run this test in parallel with
others (there aren’t any others yet, but that will soon change).
Then we set up our input to be the slice of bytes representing the string
“HAL”, and also we establish in advance the result we want when this is
enciphered: namely, the slice of bytes “IBM”.
In the middle of our test sandwich is the meat: we call the shift.Encipher
function with our input, and save the result as what we got.
When should the test fail?
All this is important, but if we stopped here, it wouldn’t really be a useful
test. To be useful, a test has to be able to fail, and the only question for us is
when that should happen.
Well, you know the answer to that: the test should fail when got is not equal
to want. The bytes.Equal function will tell us this. If want and got are
equal, then everything’s fine: we just reach the end of the test function and
exit.
On the other hand, if want and got are different, then the value of got must
be something we didn’t expect. That would mean we have a bug in 
Encipher (or possibly in the test… or even both). Whatever the cause, we’d
like to know what we actually did get, so we print got using t.Errorf,
along with a reminder of what it should have been (want).
That all sounds a bit exhausting, but it’s a very simple idea: call the function
with some input, compare the result with what you expected, and fail the
test if they’re not the same. Almost all tests work this way, and the only
important things that vary are the inputs and expectations.
The world’s greatest bug detector
Great! We have a test. So what’s next? Should we go ahead and write 
Encipher now and check if the test passes?
Well, we could, but there’s something else we should do first. We should
see the test fail. What’s the point of that?
Well, what is a test, actually? Yes, it’s a kind of executable specification of
what the function should do, and a way of verifying that the implementation
conforms to that spec. But there’s another way to think about tests: as bug
detectors.
Imagine you buy a smoke detector for your home, and the sales droid
assures you that it’s the finest smoke detector available on the market today.
It looks beautiful, it has a long battery life, wi-fi integration, and it literally
has bells and whistles.
All of that is wonderful, but it doesn’t tell you the one important thing you
need to know: will it sound the alarm when there’s a fire? Because if it
doesn’t, none of the other features matter at all. And for all you know, it’s
just a fancy box with no works inside. So how can the sales droid prove to
you that it really does detect fires?
Only by actually lighting a fire underneath it and seeing if the alarm goes
off, right? And exactly the same thing applies to our test. As long as it’s
passing, that’s very nice, but it tells us nothing about whether it would
actually detect bugs in Encipher. It could just be the equivalent of an empty
box.
To know whether it would really detect a fire, we need to light one. Or
rather, if it’s supposed to detect bugs, let’s put a bug in Encipher on purpose
and see whether the test catches it.
A function about nothing
What bug should we try? Well, probably the simplest thing that could be
wrong with Encipher is that it does nothing at all! We’d definitely want to
detect that, and this test looks like it should.
So let’s write just such a null implementation of Encipher and see what
happens. Something like this would be fine:
(Listing shift/1)
That’s clearly wrong, I hope you’ll agree. Whatever the input, Encipher
always just returns nil. If we can’t detect this bug, then we don’t have
much of a bug detector, do we?
Here goes:
--- FAIL: TestEncipherTransformsHALToIBM (0.00s) 
    shift_test.go:16: want "IBM", got ""
func Encipher(plaintext []byte) (ciphertext []byte) {
    return nil
}
go test
