Advanced Topics
280
•	 Steeper learning curve: Frameworks generally require a good understanding of the logic and 
abstractions they provide. This requires developers to spend more time reading the related 
documentation or learning some key lessons in practice.
•	 Harder to catch some trivial bugs via static checks: Frameworks often use dynamic code 
invocation libraries, such as reflect (https://pkg.go.dev/reflect). Such operations 
are performed when executing a program, making it hard to catch various types of issues, such 
as the incorrect implementation of interfaces or invalid naming.
When deciding on using a specific framework, you should do some analysis and compare the advantages it 
provides to you with the downsides it brings, especially in the long term. Many developers underestimate 
the complexity that frameworks bring to them or the other developers in their organizations: most 
frameworks perform a fair amount of magic to provide a convenient code structure to application 
developers. In general, you should always start from a simpler option (in our case, not using a particular 
framework) and only decide to use a framework if its benefits outweigh its downsides.
Now that we have discussed the topic of frameworks, let’s move on to the next section, where we will 
describe the different aspects of microservice ownership.
Storing microservice ownership data
One of the key benefits of using microservice architectures is the ability to distribute their development: 
each service can be developed and maintained by a separate team, and teams can be distributed across 
the globe. While the distributed development model helps different teams build various parts of their 
systems independently, it brings some new challenges, such as service ownership.
To illustrate the problem of service ownership, imagine that you are working in a company with 
thousands of microservices. One day, the security engineers of your company find out that there is a 
critical security vulnerability in a popular Go library that is used in most of the company’s services. 
How can you communicate with the right teams and find out who would be responsible for making 
the changes in each service?
There are numerous companies with thousands of microservices. In such companies, it becomes 
impossible to remember which team and which developers are responsible for each of them. In such 
companies, it becomes crucial to find a solution to the service ownership problem.
Note
While we are discussing the ownership problem for microservices, the same principles apply 
to many other types of technological assets, such as Kafka topics and database tables.
