Storing microservice ownership data
281
How can we define service ownership?
There are many different ways of doing this, each of which is equally important for some specific 
use cases:
•	 Accountability: Which person/entity is accountable for the service and who can act as the 
primary point of contact or the main authority for it?
•	 Support: Who is going to provide support for the service, such as a service bug, feature request, 
or user question?
•	 On-call: Who is currently on-call for the service? Who can we contact in case of an emergency issue?
As you can see, there are many ways of interpreting the word ownership, depending on the use case. 
Let’s look at some ways to define each role, starting with accountability: who should be accountable, 
or liable, for a service?
In most organizations, liability is attributed to engineering managers: every engineering manager acts 
as an accountable individual for some unique domain. If you define a mapping between your services 
and the engineering managers that are responsible for them, you can solve the service accountability 
problem by allowing them to easily find the relevant point of contact, such as an engineering manager 
that is liable for it.
An alternative way of defining service accountability is to associate services with teams. However, 
there can be multiple issues with this:
•	 Shared accountability does not always work: If you have multiple people that are responsible 
for a service, it becomes unclear who the final authority among them is.
•	 A team is a loosely defined concept in many organizations: Unless you have a single, well-defined 
registry of teams in your company, it’s better to avoid referencing team names in your systems.
Now, let’s discuss the support aspect of ownership. Ideally, each service should have a mechanism for 
reporting any issues or bugs. Such a mechanism can take one of the following forms:
•	 Support channel: The identifier or URL of a messaging channel for leaving support requests, 
such as a link to the relevant Google group, Slack channel, or any other similar tool.
•	 Ticketing system URL: The URL to a system/page that allows you to create a support request 
ticket. Developers often use Atlassian Jira for this purpose.
If you provide such metadata for all your services, you will significantly simplify user support: all 
service users, such as other developers, will always know how to request support for them or report 
any bugs or other issues.
Let’s move on to the on-call ownership metadata. An easy solution to this is to link each service to 
its on-call rotation. If you use PagerDuty, you can store the relationships between service names and 
their corresponding PagerDuty rotation identifiers.
