Frameworks
279
Here, we are registering an HTTP handler function and letting it handle HTTP requests on the 
localhost:8080/echo endpoint. The code for our example is extremely simple, yet it does a lot 
of background work (you can check the source of the net/http package to see how complex the 
internal part of the HTTP handling logic is) to start an HTTP server, accept all incoming requests, 
and respond to them by executing the function provided by us. Most importantly, our code allows us 
to add additional HTTP handlers by following the same format of calling the http.HandleFunc 
function and passing handler functions to it. The net/http library that we used in our example 
established a structure for handling HTTP calls to various endpoints, acting as a framework for our 
Go application.
The authors of the net/http package were able to add additional HTTP endpoint handlers (provided 
by the http.HandleFunc function) by following a pattern called inversion of control (IoC). 
IoC is a way of organizing code in which some component (in our case, the net/http package) 
takes control of the execution flow by calling the other components of it (in our case, the function 
provided as an argument to http.HandleFunc). In our example, the moment we call the http.
ListenAndServe function, the net/http package takes control of executing the HTTP handler 
functions: each time the HTTP server receives an incoming request, our function is called automatically.
IaC is a primary mechanism of most frameworks that allows them to establish a foundation for various 
parts of application code. In general, most frameworks work by taking control of an application, or a 
part of it, and handling some routing operations, such as resource management (opening and closing 
incoming connections, writing and reading files, and so on), serialization and deserialization, and 
many more.
What are the primary use cases for using Go frameworks? We can list some of the most common ones:
•	 Writing web servers: Similar to our example of an HTTP server, there can be other types of 
web servers handling requests to different endpoints using different protocols, such as Apache 
Thrift or gRPC.
•	 Async event processing: There are libraries for various asynchronous communication tools, 
such as Apache Kafka, that help organize code in an IoC way by passing handler functions for 
various types of events (such as Kafka messages belonging to different topics), which get called 
automatically each time there is a new unprocessed message.
It is important to note that frameworks have some significant downsides:
•	 Harder to debug and understand the execution flow: In addition to taking control of the 
execution flow, frameworks also perform lots of background work that is hidden from developers. 
Because of this, it is usually much harder to understand how your code is being executed, as 
well as to debug various issues, such as initialization errors (you may find more information 
on this in the following article: https://www.baeldung.com/cs/framework-vs-
library).
