274
Lesson 31  Concurrent state
long time. Worse, if we somehow try to lock the same mutex, we’ll deadlock—the Lock call 
will block forever because we’re never going to give up the lock while we’re waiting to 
acquire it!
To keep on the safe side, follow these guidelines:
Try to keep the code within the mutex simple.
Only have one mutex for a given piece of shared state.
A mutex is good to use for simple shared state, but it’s not uncommon to want some-
thing more. In the gopher factory of lesson 30, we might want gophers that act inde-
pendently, responding to requests from other gophers but also doing their own thing 
over time. Unlike the gophers on the assembly line, gophers like this don’t respond 
entirely to messages from other gophers, but can decide to do things on their own 
behalf.   
31.2 Long-lived workers
Consider the task of driving a rover around the surface of Mars. The software on the 
Curiosity Mars rover is structured as a set of independent modules that communicate 
by passing each other messages (see mng.bz/Z7Xa), much like Go’s goroutines.
The rover’s modules are responsible for different aspects of the rover’s behavior. Let’s 
try to write some Go code that drives a (highly simplified) rover around a virtual Mars. 
Because we don’t have a real engine to drive, we’ll make do by updating a variable that 
holds the coordinates of the rover. We want the rover to be controllable from Earth, so it 
needs to be responsive to external commands.
NOTE The code structure we’re building here can be used for any kind of long-lived task
that does things independently, such as a website poller or a hardware device controller.
To drive the rover, we’ll start a goroutine that will be responsible for controlling its posi-
tion. The goroutine is started when the rover software starts and stays around until it’s 
Quick check 31.2 What are two potential problems with locking a mutex?
QC 31.2 answer It might block other goroutines that are also trying to lock the mutex; it could lead
to deadlock.
 
