271
Mutexes
Note that there’s nothing that 
physically stops a gopher from 
using the phone without taking 
the token. But if they do, there may 
be unintended consequences from 
two gophers talking over one 
another on the phone. Also, con-
sider what happens if the gopher 
with the token forgets to return it: 
no other gopher will be able to use 
the phone until they remember to 
return it.
In a Go program, the equivalent of 
that glass jar is called a mutex. The word mutex is short for mutual exclusion. Goroutines 
can use a mutex to exclude each other from doing something at the same time. The some-
thing in question is up to the programmer to decide. Like the jar in the factory, the only 
“mutual exclusion” properties of a mutex come from the fact that we’re careful to use it 
whenever we access the thing we’re guarding with it.
Mutexes have two methods: Lock and Unlock. Calling Lock is like taking the token from the 
jar. We put the token back in the jar by calling Unlock. If any goroutine calls Lock while the 
mutex is locked, it’ll wait until it’s unlocked before locking it again.
To use the mutex properly, we need to make sure that any code accessing the shared val-
ues locks the mutex first, does whatever it needs to, then unlocks the mutex. If any code 
doesn’t follow this pattern, we can end up with a race condition. Because of this, 
mutexes are almost always kept internal to a package. The package knows what things 
the mutex guards, but the Lock and Unlock calls are nicely hidden behind methods or 
functions.
Unlike channels, Go mutexes aren’t built into the language itself. Rather, they’re available 
in the sync package. Listing 31.1 is a complete program that locks and unlocks a global 
mutex value. We don’t need to initialize the mutex before using it—the zero value is an 
unlocked mutex.
The defer keyword introduced in lesson 28 can help with mutexes too. Even if there are 
many lines of code in a function, the Unlock call stays next to the Lock call.
 
