227
9.12
#72: Forgetting about sync.Cond
The call to Wait must happen within a critical section, which may sound odd. Won’t
the lock prevent other goroutines from waiting for the same condition? Actually, the
implementation of Wait is the following:
1
Unlock the mutex.
2
Suspend the goroutine, and wait for a notification.
3
Lock the mutex when the notification arrives.
So, the listener goroutines have two critical sections:
When accessing donation.balance in for donation.balance < goal
When accessing donation.balance in fmt.Printf
This way, all the accesses to the shared donation.balance variable are protected.
 Now, what about the updater goroutine? The balance update is done within a criti-
cal section to prevent data races. Then we call the Broadcast method, which wakes all
the goroutines waiting on the condition each time the balance is updated.
 Hence, if we run this example, it prints what we expect:
10$ goal reached
15$ goal reached
In our implementation, the condition variable is based on the balance being updated.
Therefore, the listener variables wake each time a new donation is made, to check
whether their donation goal is met. This solution prevents us from having a busy loop
that burns CPU cycles in repeated checks.
 Let’s also note one possible drawback when using sync.Cond. When we send a
notification—for example, to a chan struct—even if there’s no active receiver, the
message is buffered, which guarantees that this notification will be received eventu-
ally. Using sync.Cond with the Broadcast method wakes all goroutines currently wait-
ing on the condition; if there are none, the notification will be missed. This is also an
essential principle that we have to keep in mind.
Signaling in Go can be achieved with channels. The only event that multiple gorou-
tines can catch is a channel closure, but this can happen just once. Therefore, if we
Signal() vs. Broadcast()
We can wake a single goroutine using Signal() instead of Broadcast(). In terms
of semantics, it is the same as sending a message in a chan struct in a non-block-
ing fashion:
ch := make(chan struct{})
select {
case ch <- struct{}{}:
default:
}
