221
9.11
#71: Misusing sync.WaitGroup
 Let’s now discuss a common mistake while using sync.WaitGroup. 
9.11
#71: Misusing sync.WaitGroup
sync.WaitGroup is a mechanism to wait for n operations to complete; generally, we
use it to wait for n goroutines to complete. Let’s first recall the public API; then we will
look at a pretty frequent mistake leading to non-deterministic behavior.
 A wait group can be created with the zero value of sync.WaitGroup:
wg := sync.WaitGroup{}
Internally, a sync.WaitGroup holds an internal counter initialized by default to 0. We
can increment this counter using the Add(int) method and decrement it using
Done() or Add with a negative value. If we want to wait for the counter to be equal to 0,
we have to use the Wait() method that is blocking.
NOTE
The counter cannot be negative, or the goroutine will panic.
In the following example, we will initialize a wait group, start three goroutines that will
update a counter atomically, and then wait for them to complete. We want to wait for
these three goroutines to print the value of the counter (which should be 3). Can you
guess whether there’s an issue with this code?
wg := sync.WaitGroup{}
var v uint64
for i := 0; i < 3; i++ {
go func() {
wg.Add(1)
atomic.AddUint64(&v, 1)
wg.Done()
}()
}
wg.Wait()
fmt.Println(v)
If we run this example, we get a non-deterministic value: the code can print any value
from 0 to 3. Also, if we enable the -race flag, Go will even catch a data race. How is
this possible, given that we are using the sync/atomic package to update v? What’s
wrong with this code?
 The problem is that wg.Add(1) is called within the newly created goroutine, not in
the parent goroutine. Hence, there is no guarantee that we have indicated to the wait
group that we want to wait for three goroutines before calling wg.Wait().
 Figure 9.11 shows a possible scenario when the code prints 2. In this scenario, the
main goroutine spins up three goroutines. But the last goroutine is executed after the
two first goroutines have already called wg.Done(), so, the parent goroutine is already
unlocked. Therefore, in this scenario, when the main goroutine reads v, it’s equal to
2. The race detector can also detect unsafe accesses to v.
Creates 
a goroutine
Increments the wait 
group counter
Atomically 
increments v
Decrements the
wait group counter
Waits until all the goroutines have 
incremented v before printing it
