204
CHAPTER 9
Concurrency: Practice
Once we have received all the messages from messageCh, select does not block and
chooses the default case (figure 9.6). Hence, we return and stop the goroutine.
Figure 9.6
Default case
This is a way to ensure that we receive all the remaining messages from a channel with
a receiver on multiple channels. Of course, if a messageCh is sent after the goroutine
has returned (for example, if we have multiple producer goroutines), we will miss this
message.
 When using select with multiple channels, we must remember that if multiple
options are possible, the first case in the source order does not automatically win.
Instead, Go selects randomly, so there’s no guarantee about which option will be cho-
sen. To overcome this behavior, in the case of a single producer goroutine, we can use
either unbuffered channels or a single channel. In the case of multiple producer
goroutines, we can use inner selects and default to handle prioritizations.
 The following section discusses a common type of channel: notification channels. 
9.5
#65: Not using notification channels
Channels are a mechanism for communicating across goroutines via signaling. A sig-
nal can be either with or without data. But for Go programmers, it’s not always
straightforward how to tackle the latter case.
 Let’s look at a concrete example. We will create a channel that will notify us when-
ever a certain disconnection occurs. One idea is to handle it as a chan bool:
disconnectCh := make(chan bool)
Now, let’s say we interact with an API that provides us with such a channel. Because it’s
a channel of Booleans, we can receive either true or false messages. It’s probably
clear what true conveys. But what does false mean? Does it mean we haven’t been
disconnected? And in this case, how frequently will we receive such a signal? Does it
mean we have reconnected?
 Should we even expect to receive false? Perhaps we should only expect to receive
true messages. If that’s the case, meaning we don’t need a specific value to convey
messageCh
Receiver
disconnectCh
select {
  case v := <-messageCh:
  default:
}
