196
CHAPTER 9
Concurrency: Practice
Except for the Value method that calls the parent context to retrieve a value, the
other methods return a default value so the context is never considered expired or
canceled.
 Thanks to our custom context, we can now call publish and detach the cancella-
tion signal:
err := publish(detach{ctx: r.Context()}, response)
Now the context passed to publish will never expire or be canceled, but it will carry
the parent context’s values.
 In summary, propagating a context should be done cautiously. We illustrated that
in this section with an example of handling an asynchronous action based on a con-
text associated with an HTTP request. Because the context is canceled once we return
the response, the asynchronous action can also be stopped unexpectedly. Let’s bear in
mind the impacts of propagating a given context and, if necessary, that it is always pos-
sible to create a custom context for a specific action.
 The following section discusses a common concurrency mistake: starting a gorou-
tine without plans to stop it. 
9.2
#62: Starting a goroutine without knowing 
when to stop it
Goroutines are easy and cheap to start—so easy and cheap that we may not necessarily
have a plan for when to stop a new goroutine, which can lead to leaks. Not knowing
when to stop a goroutine is a design issue and a common concurrency mistake in Go.
Let’s understand why and how to prevent it.
 First, let’s quantify what a goroutine leak means. In terms of memory, a goroutine
starts with a minimum stack size of 2 KB, which can grow and shrink as needed (the
maximum stack size is 1 GB on 64-bit and 250 MB on 32-bit). Memory-wise, a gorou-
tine can also hold variable references allocated to the heap. Meanwhile, a goroutine
can hold resources such as HTTP or database connections, open files, and network
sockets that should eventually be closed gracefully. If a goroutine is leaked, these
kinds of resources will also be leaked.
 Let’s look at an example in which the point where a goroutine stops is unclear.
Here, a parent goroutine calls a function that returns a channel and then creates a
new goroutine that will keep receiving messages from this channel:
ch := foo()
go func() {
for v := range ch {
// ...
}
}()
The created goroutine will exit when ch is closed. But do we know exactly when this
channel will be closed? It may not be evident, because ch is created by the foo
Uses detach on top 
of the HTTP context
