Introduction to synchronous communication
95
In Chapter 2, we implemented our API handlers by sending the result data as an HTTP response body 
in JSON format. We achieved this by using the Go JSON encoder:
if err := json.NewEncoder(w).Encode(details); err != nil {
    log.Printf("Response encode error: %v\n", err)
}
As discussed in the previous chapter, the JSON format is not the most optimal in terms of data size. 
Also, it does not offer useful tools, such as the cross-language code generation of data structures, that 
are provided by the formats, such as Protocol Buffers. Additionally, sending requests over HTTP and 
encoding the data manually is not the only form of communication between the services. There are 
some existing remote procedure call (RPC) libraries and frameworks that help to communicate 
between multiple services and offer some additional features to application developers:
•	 Client and server code generation: Developers can generate the client code for connecting 
and sending data to other microservices, as well as generate the server code for accepting 
incoming requests.
•	 Authentification: Most RPC libraries and frameworks offer authentication options for cross-
service requests, such as TLS-based and token-based authentication.
•	 Context propagation: This is the ability to send additional data with requests, such as traces, 
which we are going to cover in Chapter 11.
•	 Documentation generation: Thrift can generate HTML documentation for services and data 
structures.
In the next section, we are going to cover some of the RPC libraries that you can use in your Go 
services, along with the features they provide.
Go RPC frameworks and libraries
Let’s review some popular RPC frameworks and libraries that are available for Go developers.
Apache Thrift
We already covered Apache Thrift in Chapter 4 and mentioned its ability to define RPC services – sets 
of functions provided by an application, such as a microservice. Here is an example of a Thrift RPC 
service definition:
service MetadataService {
  Metadata get(1: string id)
}
