Implementing gateways and clients
101
You might be curious why it’s not recommended to use the generated structures across the application 
code base. There are multiple reasons for this, which are listed as follows:
•	 Unnecessary coupling between the application and serialization format: If you ever want to 
switch from one serialization format to another (for example, from Thrift to Protocol Buffers), 
and all your application code base uses generated structures for the previous serialization 
format, you would need to rewrite not only the serialization code but the entire application.
•	 Generated code structure could vary between different versions: While the field naming and 
high-level structure of the generated structures are generally stable between different versions of 
code generation tooling, the internal functions and structure of the generated code could vary 
from version to version. If any part of your application uses some generated functions that get 
changed, your application could break unexpectedly during a version update of a code generator.
•	 Generated code is often harder to use: In formats such as Protocol Buffers, all fields are always 
optional. In generated code, this results in lots of fields that can have nil values. For an application 
developer, this means doing more nil checks across all applications to prevent possible panics.
Because of these reasons, the best practice is to keep both internal structures and the generated ones 
and only use the generated structures for serialization. Let’s illustrate how to achieve this. 
We would need to add some mapping logic to translate the internal data structures and their generated 
counterparts. In the metadata/pkg/model directory, create a mapper.go file and add the 
following to it:
package model
 
import (
    "movieexample.com/gen"
)
 
// MetadataToProto converts a Metadata struct into a 
// generated proto counterpart.
func MetadataToProto(m *Metadata) *gen.Metadata {
    return &gen.Metadata{
        Id:          m.ID,
        Title:       m.Title,
        Description: m.Description,
        Director:    m.Director,
    }
}
 
