2 Diving Into Go
This chapter covers
Building Your First Go Program
Go Source Structure
Go Language Fundamentals
You paid money for a book called Go In Action, so let’s see some code
already! Rather than just throw a bunch of reference material at you (there are
plenty of other great books for that!), we thought we might try something a
little more hands-on instead. This chapter will walk you through the creation
of a single piece of software that mirrors a real-world utility, touching on
various language features and fundamentals along the way.
Go is more than just a language and a compiler, it’s an entire ecosystem of
tools designed to help you format your code, manage dependencies, test and
research documentation, and, rather than gloss over these tools until later, we
believe you should get your hands dirty with them as soon as possible, so that
you can have a more well-rounded foundation as a Go programmer.
So let’s get to it!
2.1 Goal: A Program To Count Words
If there’s one thing computers are good at, it’s counting things really, really
quickly, which makes these tasks ripe for automation with the sort of elegant
code programmers thirst for. A very common things for programmers to
count are lines and words in text files, mainly because this is the quickest
way to show off how many lines of code (or "loc" if you’re cool) you’ve
written, so that other programmers will be jealous of how productive you are.
This is so common, in fact, that there is already a ubiquitous command-line
called wc (short for "word count") which does this, and comes packaged with
pretty much every Linux and macOS system. You could just use that, of
course, but then this chapter would be very short and you would leave very
poor book reviews, and Manning would be very angry with us, so instead
let’s say you’ve decided that wc is too old and crusty for your refined tastes
and you’re going to rewrite it in Go![3]
[3] "11 stars!", "A++", "Changed my life, would buy this book for my
family!", "Who says print media is dead?" These are just a few of the
glowing reviews you could post, if you were so inclined.
2.2 What You Need First
You are encouraged to follow along with the code in this book to get the most
out of it and get used to what it is like to write Go in an actual development
environment. While you can do this with just a Go installation and your
operating system’s built-in terminal, you’ll have a better experience with an
IDE or an alternative terminal emulator. We’ll discuss these in detail below,
but you can also visit the book’s website at https://goinaction.github.io where
we keep an up-to-date list of recommended software and quick-start
instructions for getting set up!
2.2.1 A Code Editor
You can use any editor you like to write Go, so use whatever is comfortable
to you. If you’re unsure where to start, the Go Wiki provides several popular
suggestions, just check out the page above or head over to
https://go.dev/doc/editors and look for links to the Wiki on IDEs and editor
plugins.
The landscape of code editors is constantly shifting, so this book does not
concentrate on any particular coding environment. Different editors have
different levels of Go support, some of which might require extensions or
plugins for things like autocompletion and documentation, so make sure you
check the documentation for your particular editor if you don’t find it in the
link above and consider installing any support packages you need. Some
editors might even install Go for you! If that’s the case, just make sure you
still have access to the Go tools themselves from the command line, since this
book will be using those pretty regularly. If in doubt, you’re probably safe to
follow the steps in the next section to install Go on your operating system of
choice, just so you’re guaranteed to be able to access the tools you need.
2.2.2 Git
Git (https://git-scm.com/) is a free and open-source revision control system,
which is a piece of software used for managing software projects. It is one of
the most popular tools for this purpose, and it is integrated into the Go
toolchain as the default option to fetch dependencies from popular open
software repositories, such as Github. If it is not installed by your editor
integration of choice, you will want to download it from https://git-
scm.com/downloads for your system and install it so that you can easily fetch
3rd-party libraries once you start to use dependencies beyond the Go
Standard Library.
2.2.3 The Go Toolchain
Of course, you’ll also need Go itself. Go comes packaged for most major
operating systems, so the best way to kick this process off is to visit
https://go.dev/doc/install and follow the instructions there. This will install
the latest Go distribution on your system, which includes the extensive
standard library as well as the compiler and various command-line tools that
you’ll be using to build and test your software.
2.2.4 Terminal Access
You will also want some interface to type these commands into, usually in
the form of a terminal emulator application, sometimes also called a
"command prompt" or simply a "terminal". If you are using an IDE, you may
find that it has one built in, however every modern OS also has their own
version of a built-in terminal. These can be a little bare-bones, however so
you may want to try out something else. Check out
https://goinaction.github.io/software/terminals/ for some possibilities!
2.3 Creating Your Project Root
The first step in every new Go project is creating a directory for your code to
live. Whether this code is going to be a reusable library or a runnable
program, this directory, called the project root is the home base for all of
your code to live in so that Go knows where to find everything and how to
build it. Each of the projects in this book will have their own root directory to
keep them well contained. For this project, you’ll be creating a directory
called wordcount for this purpose. It might also help to create a single
directory to hold all of the project root code for this book as well. Througout
this book, we’ll locate projects in the gobook directory, but feel free to omit
the containing directory if you like.
Table 2.1. Creating The Project Directory
Command Description In Linux/macOS In Windows
Default Terminal:
cd %HOMEPATH%
Change to your home directory cd
PowerShell: cd~
PowerShell 7 cd
Create the book directory and mkdir -p mkdir
wordcount project root gobook/wordcount gobook\wordcount
cd cd
Switch to the project root directory
gobook/wordcount gobook\wordcount
2.3.1 Initializing The Project Module
Go uses a system called Go modules to give names to individual software
projects and manage their dependencies so that anyone who has access to the
source code can be sure that they are working on the same program, with the
same set of dependencies, at the same versions as everyone else. Modules
will be covered in greater detail in the Chapter on Modules, but for now just
issue the following command in the wordcount directory to get your project
ready for the code:
Listing 2.1. Initializing The wordcount Module
$ go mod init gobook/wordcount #1
go: creating new go.mod: module gobook/wordcount
You can use the module name gobook/wordcount whether or not you put
your new project in a gobook directory. The only relevant portion of the name
for now is the final path segment which must match the directory name you
run the command in. You could, of course, simply have given it the name
wordcount, and this will work fine, but for the purposes of convention, you
might want to get used to prefixing the module name with something, since
eventually this will be where repository information will go.
The go Command
This is the first of many appearances of your new best friend and constant
companion throughout your journey as a Go programmer: the go command.
You will be using it a lot.
This little Swiss Army Knife does everything from building your code to
testing it, installing its dependencies, and everything in between. It is broken
down into a series of subcommands, such as mod (which handles
dependencies) being one. You’ll only be touching on it briefly in this chapter,
but, rest assured, there will be plenty to learn about this tool and more in the
Chapter 3.
Once this command is run, you will be left with a directory containing one
file: go.mod.This directory is now the main module for your project, and the
Go toolchain will reference this go.mod when building any code in this
directory (or in any directories beneath it). If you take a look inside this file,
you will see something very similar to the following:
Listing 2.2. Your New go.mod File
module gobook/wordcount
go 1.18
There’s not a lot to see here yet, since this is a brand new project with no
external dependencies (or code!). The first line is called the module directive,
and it simply indicates that the name of this module is gobook/wordcount.
The last line is called the go directive, and it says that this software was
developed using Go version 1.18.
Now you have a shiny new module just brimming with possibilities for the
future! Time to write some actual code!
GOROOT In Days Of Yore
History lesson: in the early days of Go, you needed to have a GOPATH
environment variable that pointed to a directory where all of your source and
dependencies lived. This directory needed a src subdirectory for all of your
source, a bin subdirectory for tools and such that you built, and a pkg
subdirectory for cached library objects. This was fine and all, but all of your
code ended up in one place, which was a little weird. Oh, and it didn’t really
handle versioning very well, so we had to make sites like gopkg.in to keep
versions separate, otherwise you needed a bunch of separate GOPATHs
which would each have their own copies of dependencies. Oh yeah, and also
you had to check dependencies in sometimes to make sure they didn’t get
deleted from public repos or to make sure they didn’t get updated on you. So,
yeah, it was just a whole thing, and there were a bunch of third-party tools
like gb and glide and dep that stepped up to fill in the gaps.
Eventually, however, we got Go Modules which does versioning and lets you
build a project wherever, so long as you do a go mod init first, More
importantly, we also got the Go package and checksum databases which act
as public mirrors for most Go code checked in to the major public
repositories, making it very unlikely that your dependencies will just
disappear on you.
2.4 The First Iteration: Counting Spaces
Spaces are the natural division between words, so as a first pass, you’ll write
a simple counter for spaces in a string. This will serve as the test case for the
rest of the chapter, gaining improvements as you go.
2.4.1 Creating main.go
The first order of business is creating a file that contains some Go code to
run. Open a file called main.go and put the following code in it.
Listing 2.3. Your First main.go File
package main
import "fmt"
func main() {
// Use hard-coded text to start.
text := "let's count some words!"
var numSpaces int
// Look at the text one byte at a time.
for i := 0; i < len(text); i++ {
if text[i] == ' ' {
numSpaces++
}
}
fmt.Println("Found", numSpaces+1, "words")
}
Just like that, your first Go program on the books! This code reprsents a
complete Go program that counts the number of spaces in the text variable
by looking at each character and checking to see if it’s a space. It’s got a
couple of rough edges, but you’ll fix these soon enough. But first, try it out!
2.4.2 Building The Program With go build
In order to run your program for the first time, you can use the go build
command from the directory where main.go resides. This will compile all of
the .go files in that directory and, by default, it will create an executable file
with the same name as the directory itself.
If you’re following along, this should result in a binary file called wordcount
(or wordcount.exe on Windows) that is ready to run, and you can simply call
it as a command:
Listing 2.4. Running the wordcount Executable From The Command Line
$ ./wordcount
Found 4 words
Congratulations! You are now a Go programmer! Welcome, fellow Gopher.
2.4.3 Runing The Program With go run
Alternatively, you can also type go run from inside the directory and run it
without building first:
Listing 2.5. Running The Program
$ go run main.go
Found 4 words
go run is another handy command provided by the go tool for quick little
tests like this (see Chapter 3 for more), and it will be helpful as you add to the
program later in the chapter.
Before you go running off to monetize word-counting-as-a-service (WCAAS
is a thing, right?), let’s take a minute to check your your formatting.
2.4.4 Formatting Your Code With gofmt
If you’re using a code editor or IDE, you may have noticed some small
formatting changes to your code when you saved it. This is gofmt at work.
gofmt is another tool that comes bundled with the Go distrubution, and its job
is simple: make all Go code look the same, everywhere.
Once upon a time, this might have seemed like a strange thing to add to a
programming toolchain, but it is quickly becoming the norm, especially as
public, open-source communities have become more popular. There was a
time not so long ago when you’d see lengthy newsgroup diatribes on
syntactic style that could span weeks. It was all very fraught and dramatic
and a lot of good development time was burnt debating the merits of variable
grouping and cuddled else statements. Ain’t no one got time for that.
With standard formatting, it doesn’t matter what your preference might be.
What style of bracketing should you use? Doesn’t matter, it’s gofmt’s way.
It’s actually rather freeing, since now you just write your code and you don’t
worry about it. Moreover, standard formatting lowers the cognitive load for
reading unfamiliar code since at the very least the shape of it will be the
same. It’s great.
If you’re unsure about whether your editor is calling gofmt for you, just try
the following command on your shiny new main.go:
Listing 2.6. Testing Your Formatting With gofmt
$ gofmt -d main.go
The -d ("for diff") flag tells gofmt that you want to see any differences your
code has from the standard. If you’re lucky, it will output nothing, meaning
your editor has probably already taken care of that for you. If, on the other
hand, you see something like this:
Listing 2.7. Output Of gofmt -d When Your Formatting Isn’t Standard
--- main.go.orig
+++ main.go
@@ -3,13 +3,13 @@
import "fmt"
func main() {
- // Use hard-coded text to start.
- text := "let's count some words!"
+ // Use hard-coded text to start.
+ text := "let's count some words!"
var numSpaces int
// Look at the text one byte at a time.
- for i := 0; i < len(text); i++{
+ for i := 0; i < len(text); i++ {
if text[i] == ' ' {
numSpaces++
}
Then you probably need to check your editor settings or install some plugins.
Check out the "editors" section of
https://goinaction.github.io/software/editors/ for some guidance on this.
You can always use gofmt -w to modify your files in place, but who has time
for that? The point of gofmt is not to care about it, and you shouldn’t.
Okay, now that that’s out of the way, let’s break this down and explore how
the different pieces fit together.
2.4.5 Package Declarations
Listing 2.8. Declaring Package main
package main
You may recall from 1 that Go programs are divided into "packages", which
are the basic unit of code organization in Go. Packages define boundaries
between the different concerns of your code, and which functions, types and
values are visible in other parts of the program. Each module can contain one
or more packages, each of which can be imported separately, if the
programmer wishes. This line defines this file as belonging to the main
package, which is special. This indicates to the Go compiler that you intend
to produce an executable program that can be run all on its own. When Go
sees a file or files in a directory that define the main package, it will search
through them all looking for a function called main which is also special
since it reprsents the starting point for the program.
If your program meets these two requirements, the compiler will output a
single executable that can then be run from the command line.
2.4.6 Import Declarations
Listing 2.9. Importing The fmt Package
import "fmt"
This is what is known as an import declaration, which indicates that this
package (main) is importing one or more external packages as a dependency.
This helps the Go compiler know what additional software it needs to build to
support your program.
In this case, there’s only one dependency, but there can be any number of
import declarations, and they can appear on a single line (as in this example)
or in blocks of multiple imports, which you’ll see shortly. This part of the
code must come directly after the package declaration, so that the build
toolchain can set about the business of gathering dependency information and
building those dependencies if it needs to, before moving on to your code.
In this case the single dependency is the fmt package, which deals with
formatted output and provides some helpful functions for printing output to
the screen.
2.4.7 Blocks and Scope
The rest of the program is a single function main, which begins on line #5 and
ends with the closing brace on line #19. The main takes no arguments and
returns no values, and is the entrypoint into your program, meaning that when
the program is actually run, code will start executing from this point. A
return from main will terminate the program,
Listing 2.10. The main function
func main() {
As you’ve might have noticed, Go code uses the C-style of defining blocks of
code like functions and loops with curly braces {}, which mark the beginning
and end of the block. Blocks determine the scope, or visibility, of identifiers
such as functions names and variables. Names declared inside of a given
block are visible only inside of that block after they are declared, and in any
inner block declared after them.
In addition to the normal brace-delimited blocks around functions and loops,
there is also a single scope shared by each package, called the "package
block" which includes all of the functions defined in that package as well as
identifieres declared outside of functions, such as variables. Anything
declared at this level is visible throughout the package. Above this is the
"universe block", which contains built-in functions such as append, as well as
all of the built-in Go types and constants:
Figure 2.1. Scopes And Visibility
In the illustration above, each of the identifiers has been marked, and you can
see four different levels of scope at work. The eye icons serve as indicators
that each scope has visibility to the indentifiers of any of the scopes that
surround it. This means that at the innermost level, the code in the for loop
has access to any of the variables declared above it in the main function, as
well as all of the items in the package scope. It cannot see newAmount, since
this was declared later, nor does it have access to the identifiers in the
addAmount function because they do not share a scope.
2.4.8 Variable Declaration
As you learned in 1, all variable in Go have a type, which defines what kind
of values they can hold. Types can be assigned to variables explicitly by
using the var keyword, or you can use the short declaration operator (:=) to
do it automatically.
Listing 2.11. Explicitly Declaring the numSpaces Counter Variable With var
var numSpaces int
Here numSpaces is declared explicitly by using the var keyword, which
defines the new variable and assigns it Go’s integer type, int Because it is an
numeric value, it will automatically be assigned a default value of 0, making
it ready to use immediately. This is known as the zero value for that type.[4]
Declarations using var can also specify an initial value in the form of var
name T = V, where T is the type and V is the value, however the short variable
form is usually the more convenient method.
Listing 2.12. Declaring And Assigning The text In A Single Step Using The Short Declaration
Operator
text := "let's count some words!"
This line declares text, with the short variable operator :=, which acts
exactly like an assignment, except that it also declares a new variable at the
same time. text automatically receives the type of string through a
mechanism is called type inference, which allows Go to infer the type of the
new variable from the value you are attempting to assign to it. This a very
useful feature, since it saves you from needing to perform separate
declaration and assignment steps every time. Instead, you can just create
variables the first time you use them, and the type is taken care of for you.
Short Declaration Considerations
Short declaration is very useful, however it can have surprising behavior
when changing scope. Consider the following example:
Listing 2.13. Short Declaration Shadowing A Variable
func main() {
const defaultServer = "localhost"
// getConfigValue returns false if the named value does not exist
serverAddress, found := getConfigValue("server")
if !found {
serverAddress := defaultServer
fmt.Println("default server set:", serverAddress)
}
fmt.Println("connecting to server:", serverAddress)
}
// Output:
// default server set: localhost
// connecting to server:
Inside of the if block, everything looks great, however once you exit, the
value is empty again, what gives? This happens because the second
assignment to serverAddress is actually not an assignment at all. Because it
occurs within the if block, it’s now happening inside of a new scope, and
actually creates a new variable with the same name that only exists inside of
the if block, meaning the value of the outer serverAddress never changes at
all. This is called shadowing, and it can be easy to miss, but fortunately many
editors will warn you about shadowing so that you can fix it.
2.4.9 Comments
Listing 2.14. Adding A Comment About The text variable
// Use hard-coded text to start.
text := "let's count some words!"
Comments are one of the most important parts of any software, and Go uses
the C-style of syntax where line comments start with // and block comments
are surrounded with /* and */
Listing 2.15. Go Comment Styles
// A single line comment lasts until the end of the current line.
/*
A multi-line comment
can span multiple lines for longer
documentation.
*/
Tip
Go documentation is done using comments, so it helps to get in the habit of
using complete sentences with proper punctuation.
2.4.10 Basic For Loops
Listing 2.16. Looping Over String Characters With A for Loop
for i := 0; i < len(text); i++ {
if text[i] == ' ' {
numSpaces++
}
}
The next step in the process is to look at each character in the string to see if
it’s a space or not. For this, you need a loop.
While other languages provide multiple looping constructs such as while and
do..while, Go unifies all of these into the for statement.
The for loop in Go comes in three flavors, the first of which is the familiar
three-part for loop, which begins on line #12 and ends on line #16. This will
be familiar if you have worked with c-like languages such as Javascript, C++
and Java.
It is comprised of three sections, followed by the block of code to execute:
Figure 2.2. Anatomy Of A for Statement
The init statement is run once at the start of the loop and usually initializes
some important variable. It is optional.
The condition is a boolean expression evaluated before each loop iteration to
see if the loop should run. Unlike C and Java, go requires a condition.
The post statement is run at the end of each loop iteration, including the last
one. Usually it increments some kind of counter. It is optional.
In this code, the init statement creates a variable i used to track the character
position in the string, this is then compared to a literal space character ' '. If
it matches, numSpaces++ increments the counter, and the loop continues to
the end.
2.4.11 Calling Functions In Other Packages
Listing 2.17. Using fmt.Println To Output The Results
fmt.Println("Found", numSpaces+1, "words")
Finally, after all of that counting and looping, it’s time to return your results!
This is a great job for the fmt package, which provides methods for printing
and formatting messages.
Go uses the familiar <package>.<function> syntax to call functions in other
packages, and so fmt.Println will call the Println function from the fmt
packagg, which prints out its arguments in order with spaces between them to
give you a nice tidy message.
Note
In Go, when an identifier like a function name begins with an uppercase
letter, this indicates that it is exported, which means that it can be accessed by
anyone who imports the package. This is in contrast to other languages that
require you to advertise the names you want to export and import using
special keywords or lists. In Go, that first uppercase character is all you need.
You’ll see this throughout the rest of the chapter, when calling functions from
the standard library..
[4] The zero values for boolean values, numeric values and strings are false,
0, and the empty string (""), respectively. All other types will get a value of
nil. This is covered in greater detail in Chapter 5
2.5 A Better Way To Split The String
Counting spaces isn’t the best algorithm, though. Sometimes people still use
two spaces between words, and there’s no guarantee that you won’t have
extra spaces elsewhere, either. Try adding spaces to the beginning and end of
the text and see what happens:
Listing 2.18. Adding Some Spaces To The text Variable
text := " let's count some words! "
Now, suddenly the output is wrong:
Listing 2.19. Incorrect Output
Found 6 words
That’s two words off! Not good! It would be better if, instead of counting the
spaces, you could split the string into different words instead. Turns out
there’s a function that can do exactly this: strings.Fields
Listing 2.20. Altering main.go to use strings.Fields And `len
package main
import (
"fmt"
"strings"
)
func main() {
text := "let's count some words!"
words := strings.Fields(text)
fmt.Println("Found", len(words), "words")
}
Much simpler! Only three lines of work to do all of that counting and
looping.
2.5.1 Introducing Package strings
The strings package is another standard library package that, as you might
imagine, deals with processing and manipulating strings. Unlike the fmt
package, which deals primarily with printing strings and placing variables in
them, strings provides functions to do all sorts of nifty stuff like converting
strings into uppercase or lowercase, building them piece-by-piece and also
splitting them up.
2.5.2 Using go doc To View Package Documentation
You can view the documentation for this package using another handy
command, go doc, which parses the source for documentation comments and
prints them out for you to read. By default, this command will print all
package functions and types, however you can use the -all flag to make it
print more detailed information, such as descriptions, methods or basic usage.
Listing 2.21. Using go doc To View The Documentation For Package strings
$ go doc -all strings
This will print out a listing of all of the relevant bits of package strings
including the documentation for strings.Fields:
Listing 2.22. Documentaion For strings.Fields
func Fields(s string) []string
Fields splits the string s around each instance of one or more
consecutive white space characters, as defined by unicode.IsSpace,
returning a slice of substrings of s or an empty slice if s contains only
white space.
Viewing Documentation Online
go doc is a great tool for viewing code documentation, but you can also view
documentation online at the go.dev website. This is a site maintained by the
Go Project for viewing documentation and finding packages from across the
Go ecosystem. Check out https://pkg.go.dev/strings to see the documetation
online or to check out the documentation for any of the packages you see in
this book.
Using standard library methods is a great convenience when you can, since
many common use cases are already supported, which can save you time. In
this case, you no longer have to worry whether there are extra spaces lurking
around, since strings.Fields will simply ignore them for you.
2.5.3 Multiple Imports In An import Directive
In order to use strings.Fields, you will need to import the strings
package by adding another package to the import directive. You can simply
add another line (import "strings"), or you can import multiple packages in
the same directive by using parenthesis.
Note
Many code editors will also take care of this for you, and will arrange your
imports in a consistent way. If you see your imports changing slightly when
you save, this is what’s going on.
Listing 2.23. Multiple Import Directive For Both fmt and strings
import (
"fmt"
"strings"
)
This is the way most Go code you run into will do it, though some authors
will split it up. Usually you will see imports grouped with the standard library
imports first, followed by a blank line and then other dependencies.
2.5.4 Slices And len
Once the strings package is imported, you can call Fields using dot-
notation:
Listing 2.24. Calling strings.Fields And Getting The List Of Words
words := strings.Fields(text)
Looking at the documentation, you can see that strings.Fields takes a
single string as an argument and returns a []string, which is a slice of string
values. You’ll explore slices in the next chapter in more detail, but for now
you can think of them as lists or arrays that can shrink and grow as you need
them. Like arrays, they are indexed by number, and you can use the familiar
bracket syntax to access individual elements in them.
Figure 2.3. The Slice Of Words
The built-in len method is provided so that you can get the length of things
like strings, slices and maps, and so you can print it out directly:
Listing 2.25. Printing The Number Of Words Using len
fmt.Println("Found", len(words), "words")
Important
len will always return the number of elements in a collection, however
indices always start at 0, so remember to stop at len(yourVariable) -1 if
you’re using a for loop.
2.6 Reading From A File
Now that you have a handy method to count words, it’s time to think bigger.
You’re never going to grab market share from wc in the word-counting space
if you have to edit your source code every time you need to check a new
string!
For that, you need to be able to load from a file, and to do that, it’s time to
check out the os package.
2.6.1 Using Package os To Interact With The Filesystem
Package os exists to provide cross-platform access to things like environment
variables, arguments, and filesystem access, which includes creating,
removing and opening files on disk.
The quickest way to get the contents of the file is to just read it into memory,
and if you look through the os package documentation, you’ll find that
there’s a function called os.ReadFile that will do just that.
Listing 2.26. Altering main.go To Read The Contents Of A File Using os.ReadFile
package main
import (
"fmt"
"log"
"os"
"strings"
)
func main() {
filename := "words.txt"
fileContents, err := os.ReadFile(filename)
if err != nil {
log.Println(err)
os.Exit(1)
}
words := strings.Fields(string(fileContents))
fmt.Printf("found %d words", len(words))
}
Let’s break it down:
2.6.2 Multiple Return Values
Listing 2.27. Getting Two Values From os.ReadFile
fileContents, err := os.ReadFile(filename)
os.ReadFile is a bit different from the functions you’ve seen so far, most
notably in that it returns two values. If you look at the documentation, you
can see what these are:
Listing 2.28. Documentation For os.ReadFile
func ReadFile(name string) ([]byte, error)
ReadFile reads the named file and returns the contents.
Looking at the function definition, you can see that it returns two values: a
slice of bytes representing the contents of the file, and a value of type error,
indicating whether or not there were any problems opening the file.
Functions in Go can return any number of values, and a common pattern is to
return the the important values from a function first, followed by an error
value at the end.
2.6.3 Basic Error Handling And The log Package
All error handling in Go eventually comes down to just two steps:
1. Check if an error occurred
2. If so, handle it as soon as possible
Error handling is important enough that we have dedicated Chapter 7 to
covering this topic in detail, but while developing small programs like this,
it’s often enough to just log the error and exit, returning to the error handling
code later if you want to add special handling:
Listing 2.29. Logging An Error And Exiting
if err != nil {
log.Println(err)
os.Exit(1)
}
Error checking in Go is a simple matter of testing to see whether or not the
error value is nil. If it is, you’re good! If it’s not, then an error has happened,
and you need to handle it.
To separate error output from normal program output, you can swap out fmt
for log, which provides many of the same functions, including Println,
except that they will be printed to standard error and include a helpful
timestamp, which makes them easy to spot.
This is followed by a call to another OS function, os.Exit(1), which causes
the program to exit immediately with an exit code of 1, indicating that the
program terminated in an unexpected way.
2.6.4 Counting The Words In The Loaded File
Listing 2.30. Using strings.Fields On The File Contents
words := strings.Fields(string(fileContents))
After loading the file, and checking for an error, the technique is pretty
similar to the last version of the program, except that os.ReadFile returns a
slice of bytes instead of a string. This is because not all files are text, and Go
doesn’t want to assume anything about how you’re going to handle the file.
Instead it just returns the raw contents of the file that you can use however
you want.
Luckily, strings are also just bytes, so if you’re loading a text file, you can
simply use a type conversion to convert the bytes directly to a string like so:
string(fileContents).[5]
2.6.5 Running The Program On A File
You can use go run to run this version as before, only this time you’ll need
to create a words.txt in the same directory as main.go. You can use your
editor or just create the file directly from the command line:
Listing 2.31. Running The File On words.txt
$ echo this is four words > words.txt
$ go run main.go
found 4 words
You can also test your error handling by removing the file and seeing what
happens:
Listing 2.32. Running The File With Nothing To Read
$ rm words.txt
$ go run main.go
2022/05/05 20:33:39 open words.txt: no such file or directory
Try out different contents and see how well it works!
[5] You can also use the bytes package which, among other things, provides
many of the same methods as strings, but for slices of bytes instead: words
:= bytes.Fields(fileContents)
2.7 Specifying The File
Now that you can read the contents from a file, the next logical step is to
make it work for any file, not just words.txt. To do this, you need to be able
to process your program arguments. The os package has you covered here,
too:
Listing 2.33. Altering main.go To Take The Filename As An Argument
package main
import (
"fmt"
"log"
"os"
"strings"
)
func main() {
if len(os.Args) < 2 {
log.Println("need to provide filename!")
os.Exit(1)
}
fileContents, err := os.ReadFile(os.Args[1])
if err != nil {
log.Println(err)
os.Exit(1)
}
words := strings.Fields(string(fileContents))
fmt.Println("Found", len(words), "words")
}
2.7.1 Getting Program Arguments From os.Args
Most languages will give you access to the arguments your program was
called with, and Go is no exception. When your program is first started, the
runtime will take stock of all of the arguments passed to your program and
store them in memory. When you import the os package for the first time, it
will place them into an exported variable named Args. By convention, this
list will start with the command itself, so it will always have a length of at
least 1:
Figure 2.4. os.Args Illustrated
This allows your program to access the first argument at os.Args[1] and
treat it as the filename to be loaded:
Listing 2.34. Opening The First Argument As A File
fileContents, err := os.ReadFile(os.Args[1])
2.7.2 Avoiding A Panic By Using len
Because os.Args will always contain the name of your program first, you
need to look at os.Args[1] and above if you want to get at any of the
arguments, but there’s a catch: if your program isn’t run with any arguments
you could end up trying to access a value which doesn’t exist!
Figure 2.5. Looking Where You Shouldn’t
If you don’t check the length of your arguments first and just blindly attempt
to access the first argument, this will result in a panic, which is where the Go
runtime will crash your program rather than trying to read a value that
doesn’t exist:
Listing 2.35. Panic Output On Missing Arguments
panic: runtime error: index out of range [1] with length 1
To avoid this, your best bet is to check the number of arguments first with
len:
Listing 2.36. Checking The Argument Length With len
if len(os.Args) < 2 {
log.Println("need to provide filename!")
os.Exit(1)
}
This way, your program does the right thing if it’s not given a filename to
read from.
Important
Always check the length of any slice with len before accessing an arbitrary
element.
2.7.3 Running Your Program With Arguments
Now that you have a more flexible program, you can try it out on any text file
you like, including its own source:
Listing 2.37. Running wordcount With Files As Arguments
$ go build
$ ./wordcount words.txt
Found 4 words
$ ./wordcount main.go
Found 41 words
If you have wc installed on your system, and you’re feeling cheeky, you can
even test it out to see how it stacks up:
Listing 2.38. Testing Against The Competition
$ wc -w words.txt
4 words.txt
$ wc -w main.go
41 main.go
Hah, take that wc!
2.8 A More Efficient Method
os.ReadFile has been working pretty well so far, but it has one small
problem: it reads the whole file into memory each time. This is fine for
smaller files, but you can make it work for any number of files of any size
with just a little more work.
Reading and writing data in managable chunks is one of those tasks that’s
common enough that Go has an entire package dedicated to it. In this case,
the package is called bufio, which buffers input and output so that your
program doesn’t hold on to more memory than it needs.
One of the types in this package that is particularly useful for reading bits text
is the Scanner type, which can split data in a variety of ways and give it to
you a piece at a time. Using a package like this is handy, since it allows you
to focus on the important parts of the task at hand, without requiring you to
handle all of the implementation details yourself. In this case, it means you
only have to worry about calling a couple of methods to get the latest bit of
text and check for errors, without needing to write a bunch of extra code.
2.8.1 Using go doc To Learn More About Types
When you’re looking to learn more about a package and its types, you can
use go doc to get an overview by passing it the package and the type name:
Listing 2.39. Output Of go doc bufio Scanner
type Scanner struct {
// Has unexported fields.
}
Scanner provides a convenient interface for reading data such as a file
of newline-delimited lines of text. Successive calls to the Scan method
will step through the 'tokens' of a file, skipping the bytes between the
tokens. The specification of a token is defined by a split function of
type SplitFunc; the default split function breaks the input into lines
with line termination stripped. Split functions are defined in this
package for scanning a file into lines, bytes, UTF-8-encoded runes, and
space-delimited words. The client may instead provide a custom split
function.
Scanning stops unrecoverably at EOF, the first I/O error, or a token too
large to fit in the buffer. When a scan stops, the reader may have
advanced arbitrarily far past the last token. Programs that need more
control over error handling or large tokens, or must run sequential
scans on a reader, should use bufio.Reader instead.
func NewScanner(r io.Reader) *Scanner
func (s *Scanner) Buffer(buf []byte, max int)
func (s *Scanner) Bytes() []byte
func (s *Scanner) Err() error
func (s *Scanner) Scan() bool
func (s *Scanner) Split(split SplitFunc)
func (s *Scanner) Text() string
This is a typical document listing for a package type, and a good example of
how go doc presents documentation at a higher level. The first thing you’ll
see is the definition of the type itself, as well as any fields it might export
inside of the curly braces. In this case, Scanner doesn’t expose any fields, so
all you see is a comment that it contains unexported fields, just in case you
care about that sort of thing.
After the type definition, go doc will add the type documentation, which is
usally a description of the type and its purpose, often with info about how it
works. This can be more or less detailed, depending on the package, but
standard library packages like this one tend to be fairly detailed to give you
as much information as possible so that you don’t miss anything that might
be important (even if it might not concern your use-case). In this example, the
Scanner type documentation has a lot to say about how the type is used, as
well as some more technical details about how it’s implemented. There’s a lot
going on here, but what it breaks down to is:
1. Scanner splits up data into smaller pieces, called "tokens".
2. The default mode is to split on newlines, meaning each "token" will be a
single line of your file, with the trailing newline chopped off. You can
also change this behavior if you want, using one of several pre-defined
SplitFunc functions, or you write your own.
3. Scanner will keep returning tokens until you reach the end of the file
(EOF) or an error occurs.
After the description, but before any methods, go doc will also list any
functions in the same package that return a value (or pointer) of the type you
are asking about. The reason for this is because some types are designed to be
initialized with before they are used, so go doc will list anything that looks
like it might be a constructor function for that type first, so that you’re aware
of them. In this case there is a function called NewScanner that plugs in the
data source you’ll be reading from and returns a new scanner for that data,
ready to use.
Constructors In Go
While many types in Go are designed to be useful without needing
initialization, others require some configuration first, and will provide
constructor functions that do the setup for you. The convention for this is to
have a function of the form NewT(<arguments>) *T where T is the type it
returns, and the arguments areany requirements or options are passed as
arguments to this function.
In this case, Scanner needs a source to read from, so NewScanner takes an
io.Reader for the data source and initializes a new scanner to read from it.
We’ll get to io.Reader in just a moment, but first, you can examine the
methods in greater detail to see if you can get an idea of how bufio.Scanner
is supposed to be used. This can be done one method at a time by using go
doc <package name> <type name>.<method name>, or by using -all with
type to list them all at once.
In particular, there are three important methods for the word-counting
program: Scan, Text, and Err.
Listing 2.40. go doc Output For The Scan, Text and Err Methods
func (s *Scanner) Scan() bool
Scan advances the Scanner to the next token, which will then be
available through the Bytes or Text method. It returns false when the
scan stops, either by reaching the end of the input or an error. After
Scan returns false, the Err method will return any error that occurred
during scanning, except that if it was io.EOF, Err will return nil. Scan
panics if the split function returns too many empty tokens without
advancing the input. This is a common error mode for scanners.
func (s *Scanner) Text() string
Text returns the most recent token generated by a call to Scan as a
newly allocated string holding its bytes.
func (s *Scanner) Err() error
Err returns the first non-EOF error that was encountered by the Scanner.
So it looks like the general flow is to call Scan repeatedly, while getting new
tokens with Text, and finally calling Err to see if anything went wrong. This
is starting to make sense, but you’d be forgiven for thinking that the
documentation alone doesn’t give you the whole picture. Documentation is
great for understanding the particulars, but somtimes it’s far more helpful to
see an example. To fill this gap many Go packages include example snippets
as a part of their test suite, and you can view these using go doc -ex.
Listing 2.41. Example Usage From go doc -ex bufio.NewScanner
scanner := bufio.NewScanner(os.Stdin)
for scanner.Scan() {
fmt.Println(scanner.Text())
}
if err := scanner.Err(); err != nil {
fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, "reading standard input:", err)
}
IMPORTANT: Dear MEAP readers: For the longest time, it was actually
impossible to list examples using go doc, and you had to visit
https://pkg.go.dev (or its predecessor godoc.org) to find them, since the
indexing process there includes special processing for example functions so
that they can be presented alongside the rest of the documentatioin. This
totally ruined my go doc self-guided-learning zen thing, and I was kind of
bummed that I had to tell you to crack open a web browser just to view the
examples you already had on disk. However, as luck would have it, a
proposal to add this functionality (https://github.com/golang/go/issues/26715)
has seen some recent activity, and seems set to land before publication of this
book. Once the flags and output are finalized, this section will be updated
with the proper command, though it will likely be something like go doc -ex
bufio.NewScanner. Don’t get me wrong, pkg.go.dev is still awesome, and is
totally worth your time, since it provides ecosystem information go doc
cannot, and it’s very well-organized, but it’s so much faster to use go doc
locally, and knowing you can use it for whatever you need is pretty darn cool.
This makes the usage much more clear! Thanks to the example code, you can
see that Scan is designed to be used with a for loop, which automatically
takes care of getting new data on each iteration while at the same time
making sure it’s okay to proceed. Since Scan will return false when it’s
done, this means that the loop will keep running as long as there is more data
to get and nothing has gone wrong. This is a clever pattern, since it avoids the
need to check the Scan and Err methods repeatedly.
Examples like this can be very valuable when you are evaluating packages
for use in your own code and can help jump-start development, since they
provide a fully-working example as a starting point.
Tip
Whenever you’re in doubt about how you’re supposed to use a package, try
using go doc -ex to look for example code.
Adapthing the example to the word-counting code you have so far, you can
just replace the code in the loop with the code you want to call for each line,
and just check Err when you’re done. This means you can use the same
strings.Fields approach as before, only this time you’re only using it on
one line at a time and keeping a running total outside of the loop:
Listing 2.42. Using strings.Fields Inside Of The Scan Loop
// Counter to track the running total.
var wordCount int
for scanner.Scan() {
// This is done for each line of the file.
words := strings.Fields(scanner.Text())
wordCount += len(words)
}
This is clean and simple, and, thanks to the buffering provided by the
Scanner type, it is much more efficient. The only outstanding task is to open
the file in such a way that it can be read by the scanner as needed, instead of
all at once with os.ReadFile.
2.8.2 Files And io Interfaces
Earlier, you learned that NewScanner takes something called an io.Reader as
its only input, and you need some way connect a file to this type. If you
check out the documentation, you’ll find out that Reader is acually an
interface, with just a single method, Read.
Listing 2.43. Excerpt from go doc io.Reader
type Reader interface {
Read(p []byte) (n int, err error)
}
Reader is the interface that wraps the basic Read method.
Read reads up to len(p) bytes into p. It returns the number of bytes
read (0 <= n <= len(p)) and any error encountered. Even if Read returns
n < len(p), it may use all of p as scratch space during the call. If
some data is available but not len(p) bytes, Read conventionally returns
what is available instead of waiting for more.
As we mentioned in 1, interfaces values can accept any type, so long as that
type has all of the methods defined in the interface. With Reader, this is an
easy requirement to meet, since all you need is a type that has a Read method
that takes a byte slice and returns an integer and an error. So what you really
need is a type that represents a file, and has a Read method.
As luck would have it, you don’t have to look very far to find what you need,
since right alongside Readfile in the os package lives the os.File type,
which is the standard Go type for representing any file on disk. A quick
glance at the documentation shows that the os.File does indeed have Read
method, and all you need to do is call os.Open with a filename, and you’ll get
a freshly opened *File object, ready to be accessed.
Excerpt from go doc os.File
type File struct {
// Has unexported fields.
}
File represents an open file descriptor.
//...
func Open(name string) (*File, error)
//...
func (f *File) Read(b []byte) (n int, err error)
The Function Of The io Interfaces
One of the important functions of the io, package is that it defines a number
of simple interface types that model important behavior in interacting with
input/output sources in Go. In addition to Reader, you will find Writer,
which defines sources that can be written to, Seeker, which defines sources
that allow you to jump around in the data, and Closer, for types that have a
Close method for indicating that the program is done with them. Some, such
as ReadCloser or ReadSeekCloser are combinations of two or more of the
others.
By themselves, these interfaces don’t perform any function, but they are
important because they establish conventions for any Go code that needs to
perform input and output. When you see a function that takes one of these
interfaces as an argument, you will know right away how it intends to use the
value, and what it can and cannot do with the underlying type. Further, by
implementing one of these interfaces in your own code, you allow any types
you might create to be used in any one of the many different locations that
follow these conventions.
The io interfaces are one of the most common standard interfaces you will
run across looking at Go code in the standard library and elsewhere, and you
are encouraged to read the documentation for the io package to learn more
about them.
2.8.3 Integrating The Scanner Loop
With the final piece in place, all you have to do is replace the os.Readfile
call with os.Open, pass the file to the scanner, and start your loop:
Listing 2.44. Altering main.go To Use bufio.Scanner
func main() {
if len(os.Args) < 2 {
log.Println("need to provide filename!")
os.Exit(1)
}
// Open the first argument as a file.
file, err := os.Open(os.Args[1])
if err != nil {
log.Println(err)
os.Exit(1)
}
// Create a scanner to read from the file.
scanner := bufio.NewScanner(file)
// Counter to track the running total.
var wordCount int
// For each line of the file, get the number of words, and add it to
// the total.
for scanner.Scan() {
words := strings.Fields(scanner.Text())
wordCount += len(words)
}
if scanner.Err() != nil {
log.Println(scanner.Err())
os.Exit(1)
}
fmt.Println("Found", wordCount, "words")
}
This functions exactly as before, only now it will work for any file, no matter
how large it is. Which is pretty cool.
2.8.4 Function Types For Modifying Behavior
There’s one other interesting Go feature lurking in the type description for
bufio.Scanner that can make things even easier still. The docs mention that
you can change the method used to split the input into tokens using
something called a SplitFunc. Looking at the godoc for this type reveals
something interesting: the type is neither a struct nor an interface, but a
function.
Listing 2.45. Excerpt From go doc bufio SplitFunc
type SplitFunc func(data []byte, atEOF bool)
(advance int, token []byte, err error)
SplitFunc is the signature of the split function used to tokenize the
input. The arguments are an initial substring of the remaining
unprocessed data and a flag, atEOF, that reports whether the Reader has
no more data to give. The return values are the number of bytes to
advance the input and the next token to return to the user, if any, plus
an error, if any.
This is a function type, which means that variables of this type can be called
just like any other function. The interesting bit is that these variables can hold
any function that function has the same inputs and outputs. This is an
extremely powerful language feature that we’ll expand on this more in
Chapter 5, but the upshot here is that you can plug in a variety of different
functions into a scanner to get different behavior, while still getting all of the
benefits of the Scanner type.
The bufio package even provides a few of these for you, including one called
ScanWords, which changes the tokens from individual lines, to individual
words instead.
Listing 2.46. go doc bufio ScanWords
func ScanWords(data []byte, atEOF bool)
(advance int, token []byte, err error)
ScanWords is a split function for a Scanner that returns each
space-separated word of text, with surrounding spaces deleted. It will
never return an empty string. The definition of space is set by
unicode.IsSpace.
Now the task becomes almost trivially easy, since all you really need to do is
add 1 to the running total each time through the loop.
Listing 2.47. Using The ScanWords Function Instead Of Strings.Fields
// Create a scanner to read from the file.
scanner := bufio.NewScanner(file)
// Change the split function to split on words instead of lines.
scanner.Split(bufio.ScanWords)
// Counter to track the running total.
var wordCount int
// Add 1 to the count for each word.
for scanner.Scan() {
wordCount++
}
This is a great example of why it pays to check out the documentation when
working with new packages: often you will find something that can make the
task at hand easier or more flexible. Sometimes, you’ll even learn a new trick,
or another way to do things entirely, such as the Scanner loop technique.
Documentation is a programmer’s best friend and, whether it is on your local
machine with go doc or online at https://pkg.go.dev/, you should familiarize
yourself with the tools to read Go documentation, and use them often.
2.9 Reading Multiple Files
Now that you don’t have to worry about how much to read into memory, you
can extend the program to read from any number of files in a single run. The
basic operation remains the same only, instead of reading only one program
argument, you read one or more of them instead.
To accomplish this, you can create a loop over all of the program arguments,
starting from index 1:
Listing 2.48. Using A Range Loop To Visit Multiple Items In A List
func main() {
if len(os.Args) < 2 {
log.Println("need to provide at least one filename!")
os.Exit(1)
}
// Loop over all arguments from index 1 onwards.
for _, filename := range os.Args[1:] {
file, err := os.Open(filename)
// If there's an error, print it and skip to the next file.
if err != nil {
log.Printf("%s: %v", filename, err)
continue
}
scanner := bufio.NewScanner(file)
scanner.Split(bufio.ScanWords)
var wordCount int
for scanner.Scan() {
wordCount++
}
if scanner.Err() != nil {
log.Printf("scan error %s: %v", filename, scanner.Err())
file.Close()
continue
}
file.Close()
fmt.Printf("%s: %d\n", filename, wordCount)
}
}
This combines a couple of useful features. os.Args[1:] is a slice expression
(see Chapter 4 that lets you start from a partiular index, while the range loop
allows you to visit each of these items in turn, assigning the value to
filename for each pass through the loop.
range are a flexible and convenient syntax that lets you avoid the need to
check the limits of your collections, since they will automatically terminate
after viewing every item in the list. They are also one of the few places in the
language where the behavior changes, depending on how many values you
assign:
Listing 2.49. The Two Different range Loop Forms For Slices
stringList := []string{"A", "B", "C"}
// Single-value form gets just the index.
for index := range stringList {
fmt.Println(index)
}
// Output:
// 0
// 1
// 2
// Two-value form gets the index and a copy of the value.
for index, value := range stringList {
fmt.Println(index, value)
}
// Output:
// 0 A
// 1 B
// 2 C
// Discarding the index.
for _, value := range stringList {
fmt.Println(value)
}
// Output:
// A
// B
// C
If you assign just one value, you can get the index for each new item, while
using two values will get you a copy of the value at that index as well.
Optionally, you can just get the value by assigning the index to the special
blank identifier _. Range loops can be used on strings, slices and arrays, maps
and channels, and we will touch on these more in the chapters on collections
and concurrency.
In the meantime, let’s examine the fruits of your labors. If everything has
gone well, you should be able to create as many new files as you want and
call the program on all of them at once. Try throwing in a non-existint file for
good measure to see how well it holds up:
Listing 2.50. Running The New Code On Multiple Files
$ cat words2.txt
This file has a few more words in it, but it's still pretty tame compared to
the collected works of Leo Tolstoy.
But, hey, now that you're scanning the file instead of reading it all into
memory, you can scan whatever you want, without fear. wc is for chumps,
re-write everything in Go, this is the way.
$ go run main.go words.txt words2.txt not_there.txt
words.txt: 14
words2.txt: 57
not_there.txt: open not_there.txt: no such file or directory
Working great! Now that you have your first working program, try coming
up with some other useful things you can do with it. Maybe you want to take
more of the market share from WC and count lines in addition to words with
a combination of the two scanning approaches. Or maybe you want to count
word frequency or look for particular words. It’s not too much of a stretch, so
long as you handle case and punctuation (hint: check out the godoc for
strings ToLower and regexp ReplaceAllString). Or just keep reading and
come back to it later. The world of words is your oyster.
2.10 Summary
Go is a compiled, statically-typed language with a simple syntax and
rich feature-set.
Go has great documetation support, and once you know how to look
things up, you can find information on types and methods as well as
examples to help you get started.
Go has an extensive standard library that can provide a variety of useful
features and help you simplify your code.
