ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
xv
 We would also like to recognize Cory Jacobson, Jeffery Lim, Chetan Conikee, and
Nan Xiao, who consistently provided time for reviews, opinions, and guidance.
Thanks to Gabriel Aszalos, Fatih Arslan, Kevin Gillette, and Jason Waldrip for help
with sample code and reviews. And special thanks to Steve Francia for contributing
the foreword and endorsing our work.
 We end by sincerely thanking our families and friends. Anything that takes this
level of commitment and time always has an effect on the ones you love.
WILLIAM KENNEDY
I would like to thank Lisa, my beautiful wife, and my five children: Brianna, Melissa,
Amanda, Jarrod, and Thomas. Lisa, I know you and the kids spent way too many days,
nights, and weekends without your husband and father. Thank you for letting me take
all the time I needed to work on the book: I love each and every one of you.
 I would also like to thank my business partner Ed Gonzalez, creative director Erick
Zelaya, and the entire team at Ardan Studios. Ed, thanks for supporting me from the
beginning. I could not have done this without you. You are more than just a business
partner, you are a friend and brother: thank you. Erick, thanks for everything you do
to support me and the company. Not sure what we would do without you.
BRIAN KETELSEN
I would like to thank my family for their patience during this four-year-long process of
producing a book.  Christine, Nathan, Lauren, and Evelyn: thank you for putting up
with me as I wrote chapters in a lounge chair by the pool while you were swimming.
 Thank you for believing that this book could and would be published.
ERIK ST. MARTIN
I would like to thank my fiancée Abby, and my three children Halie, Wyatt, and Allie
for being so patient and understanding how much time writing a book and organizing
conferences demand. I love you all so very much and am lucky to have you.
 I would also like to thank Bill Kennedy for the tremendous effort he has poured
into this book—we asked him to help us write it, and he steered the ship most of the
way due to the demands of our jobs and organizing GopherCon. I also want to thank
the community for all their reviews and words of encouragement.
