ABOUT THIS BOOK
xvii
Chapter 2 walks you through a complete Go program, teaching you all that Go
has to offer as a language along the way.
Chapter 3 introduces the concept of packaging and how to best set up your Go
workspace and development environment. It also shows how to use the Go tool-
ing, including fetching and building your code. 
Chapter 4 provides a detailed view of Go’s built-in data types: arrays, slices,
and maps. It explains the implementation and mechanics behind these data
structures. 
Chapter 5 is a detailed view of Go’s type system, from struct types to named
types to interfaces and type embedding. It also covers how all these things come
together to allow you to structure and write complex software in a simpler way.
Chapter 6 dives deeply into how the Go scheduler, concurrency, and channels
work. It teaches the mechanics behind this aspect of the language.
Chapter 7 takes what you learn from chapter 6 and shows more practical code
around concurrency patterns. You will learn how to implement goroutine pools
to manage work and how to pool reusable resources to be shared.
Chapter 8 explores the standard library and goes deep into three packages: log,
json, and io. The chapter focuses on some of the intricacies of these three
packages. 
Chapter 9 closes the book by showing how to use the testing and benchmarking
framework. You will learn how to write unit and table tests and benchmarks, and
how to add examples to your documentation and use the examples as tests. 
About the code
All source code in the book is presented in a mono-spaced typeface like this, which
sets it off from the surrounding text.  In many listings, the code is annotated to point
out key concepts, and numbered bullets are sometimes used in the text to provide
additional information about the code.  
 Source code for the examples in the book is available for download from the pub-
lisher’s website at www.manning.com/books/go-in-action and from GitHub at https://
github.com/goinaction/code.
Author Online
Purchase of Go in Action includes free access to a private web forum run by Manning
Publications where you can make comments about the book, ask technical questions,
and receive help from the authors and from other users. To access the forum and sub-
scribe to it, point your web browser to www.manning.com/books/go-in-action. This
page provides information on how to get on the forum once you’re registered, what
kind of help is available, and the rules of conduct on the forum.  
 
 
