4
CHAPTER 1
Introducing Go
has concurrency built in using goroutines. Each inbound request automatically runs on
its own goroutine. Goroutines use less memory than threads and the Go runtime will
automatically schedule the execution of goroutines against a set of configured logical
processors. Each logical processor is bound to a single OS thread (see figure 1.2). This
makes your application much more efficient with significantly less development effort.
 If you want to execute some code concurrently while you move on to accomplish
other things, a goroutine is perfect for the job. Here’s a quick example: 
func log(msg string){
... some logging code here
}
// Elsewhere in our code after we've discovered an error.
go log("something dire happened")
That keyword go is all you need to schedule the log function to run as a goroutine
and for that goroutine be run concurrently with other goroutines. This means you can
continue executing the rest of your application while the logging happens concur-
rently, which often results in greater perceived performance for your end users. As
stated before, goroutines have minimal overhead, so it isn’t uncommon to spawn tens
of thousands of them. We’ll explore goroutines and concurrency more in-depth in
chapter 6. 
CHANNELS
Channels are data structures that enable safe data communication between gorou-
tines. Channels help you to avoid problems typically seen in programming languages
that allow shared memory access.
 The hardest part of concurrency is ensuring that your data isn’t unexpectedly
modified by concurrently running processes, threads, or goroutines. When multiple
threads change the same data without locks or synchronization, heartache always fol-
lows. In other languages, when you have global variables and shared memory, you’re
required to use complicated locking disciplines to prevent unsynchronized changes to
the same variables.
Goroutine
Thread
Goroutine Goroutine
Goroutine Goroutine
Goroutine
Thread
Goroutine
Goroutine
Thread
Goroutine
Figure 1.2
Many goroutines execute on a single OS thread
