12
CHAPTER 2
Go quick-start
the build tools to produce an executable, the function main must be declared, and it
becomes the entry point for the program. The second feature can be found on line 01
of program.
01 package main
You can see the function main is located in a package called main. If your main func-
tion doesn’t exist in package main, the build tools won’t produce an executable. 
 Every code file in Go belongs to a package, and main.go is no exception. We’ll go
into much more detail about packages in chapter 3, because packages are an impor-
tant feature of Go. For now, understand that packages define a unit of compiled code
and their names help provide a level of indirection to the identifiers that are declared
inside of them, just like a namespace. This makes it possible to distinguish identifiers
that are declared with exactly the same name in the different packages you import. 
 Now turn your attention to lines 03 through 09 of the main.go code file, which
declares imports.
03 import (
04
"log"
05
"os"
06
07
_ "github.com/goinaction/code/chapter2/sample/matchers"
08
"github.com/goinaction/code/chapter2/sample/search"
09 )
Imports are just that: they import code and give you access to identifiers such as types,
functions, constants, and interfaces. In our case, the code in the main.go code file can
now reference the Run function from the search package, thanks to the import on
line 08. On lines 04 and 05, we import code from the standard library for the log and
os packages. 
 All code files in a folder must use the same package name, and it’s common prac-
tice to name the package after the folder. As stated before, a package defines a unit of
compiled code, and each unit of code represents a package. If you quickly look back
at listing 2.1, you’ll see how we have a folder in this project called search that matches
the import path on line 08. 
 You may have noticed that on line 07 we import the matchers package and use the
blank identifier before listing out the import path.
07
_ "github.com/goinaction/code/chapter2/sample/matchers"
Listing 2.3
main.go: line 01
Listing 2.4
main.go: lines 03–09
Listing 2.5
main.go: line 07
