13
Search package
This is a technique in Go to allow initialization from a package to occur, even if you
don’t directly use any identifiers from the package. To make your programs more
readable, the Go compiler won’t let you declare a package to be imported if it’s not
used. The blank identifier allows the compiler to accept the import and call any init
functions that can be found in the different code files within that package. For our
program, this is required because the rss.go code file in the matchers package con-
tains an init function to register the RSS matcher for use. We’ll come back to how all
this works later. 
 The main.go code file also has an init function that’s declared on lines 12
through 15.
11 // init is called prior to main.
12 func init() {
13
// Change the device for logging to stdout.
14
log.SetOutput(os.Stdout)
15 }
All init functions in any code file that are part of the program will get called before
the main function. This init function sets the logger from the standard library to
write to the stdout device. By default, the logger is set to write to the stderr device.
In chapter 7 we’ll talk more about the log package and other important packages
from the standard library. 
 Finally, let’s look at the one statement that the main function performs on line 20.
19
// Perform the search for the specified term.
20
search.Run("president")
Here you see a call to the Run function that belongs to the search package. This func-
tion contains the core business logic for the program, which requires a string for the
search term. Once the Run function returns, the program will terminate. 
 Now we can look at the code that belongs to the search package. 
2.3
Search package
The search package contains the framework and business logic for the program. The
package is organized into four different code files, each with a unique responsibility.
As we continue to follow the logic of the program, we’ll explore each of these differ-
ent code files. 
 Let’s briefly talk about what a matcher is, since the entire program revolves around
the execution of matchers. A matcher in our program is a value that contains specific
intelligence for processing a feed type. In our program we have two matchers. The
framework implements a default matcher that has no intelligence, and in the matchers
Listing 2.6
main.go: lines 11–15
Listing 2.7
main.go: lines 19–20
