17
Search package
 
17 // main is the entry point for the program.
18 func main() {
19
// Perform the search for the specified term.
20
search.Run("president")
21 }
The first thing that the Run function does is retrieve a list of data feeds. These feeds
are used to pull content from the internet that is then matched against the specified
search term.
13
// Retrieve the list of feeds to search through.
14
feeds, err := RetrieveFeeds()
15
if err != nil {
16
log.Fatal(err)
17
}
There are a few important concepts here that we need to go through. You can see on
line 14 that we make a function call to the function RetrieveFeeds. This function
belongs to the search package and returns two values. The first return value is a slice
of Feed type values. A slice is a reference type that implements a dynamic array. You use
slices in Go to work with lists of data. Chapter 4 goes into greater detail about slices. 
 The second return value is an error. On line 15, the error value is evaluated for
errors, and if an error did occur, the function Fatal from the log package is called.
The Fatal function accepts an error value and will log to the terminal window before
terminating the program. 
 Though not unique to Go, you can see that our functions can have multiple return
values. It’s common to declare functions that return a value and an error value just
like the RetrieveFeeds function. If an error occurs, never trust the other values being
returned from the function. They should always be ignored, or else you run the risk of
the code generating more errors or panics.
 Let’s take a closer look at how the values being returned from the function are
being assigned to variables.
13
// Retrieve the list of feeds to search through.
14
feeds, err := RetrieveFeeds()
Here you see the use of the short variable declaration operator (:=). This operator is
used to both declare and initialize variables at the same time. The type of each value
being returned is used by the compiler to determine the type for each variable,
respectively. The short variable declaration operator is just a shortcut to streamline
Listing 2.14
main.go: lines 17–21
Listing 2.15
search/search.go: lines 13–17
Listing 2.16
search/search.go: lines 13–14
