20
CHAPTER 2
Go quick-start
33
if !exists {
34
matcher = matchers["default"]
35
}
We haven’t talked about how this map gets its values yet. You’ll see later on how the
program initializes itself and populates this map. On line 32 we check the map for a
key that matches the feed type. When looking up a key in a map, you have two
options: you can assign a single variable or two variables for the lookup call. The first
variable is always the value returned for the key lookup, and the second value, if speci-
fied, is a Boolean flag that reports whether the key exists or not. When a key doesn’t
exist, the map will return the zero value for the type of value being stored in the map.
When the key does exist, the map will return a copy of the value for that key. 
 On line 33 we check whether the key was located in the map, and if it’s not, we
assign the default matcher to be used. This allows the program to function without
causing any issues or interruption for feeds that the program currently doesn’t sup-
port. Then we launch a goroutine to perform the search.
37
// Launch the goroutine to perform the search.
38
go func(matcher Matcher, feed *Feed) {
39
Match(matcher, feed, searchTerm, results)
40
waitGroup.Done()
41
}(matcher, feed)
In chapter 6 we’ll go into more detail about goroutines, but for now a goroutine is a
function that’s launched to run independently from other functions in the program.
Use the keyword go to launch and schedule goroutines to run concurrently. On line
38 we use the keyword go to launch an anonymous function as a goroutine. An anony-
mous function is a function that’s declared without a name. In our for range loop, we
launch an anonymous function as a goroutine for each feed. This allows each feed to
be processed independently in a concurrent fashion. 
 Anonymous functions can take parameters, which we declare for this anonymous
function. On line 38 we declare the anonymous function to accept a value of type
Matcher and the address of a value of type Feed. This means the variable feed is a
pointer variable. Pointer variables are great for sharing variables between functions.
They allow functions to access and change the state of a variable that was declared
within the scope of a different function and possibly a different goroutine. 
 On line 41 the values of the matcher and feed variables are being passed into the
anonymous function. In Go, all variables are passed by value. Since the value of a
pointer variable is the address to the memory being pointed to, passing pointer vari-
ables between functions is still considered a pass by value. 
 On lines 39 and 40 you see the work each goroutine is performing.
Listing 2.22
search/search.go: lines 37–41
