41
Packages
 When the main package is encountered by the compiler, it must also find a function
called main(); otherwise a binary executable won’t be created. The main() function is
the entry point for the program, so without one, the program has no starting point. The
name of the final binary will take the name of the directory the main package is
declared in.
COMMANDS AND PACKAGES
The Go documentation uses the term command
frequently to refer to an executable program—like a command-line applica-
tion. This can be confusing for new Go developers who are reading the docu-
mentation. Remember that in Go, a command is any executable program, in
contrast to a package, which generally means an importable semantic unit of
functionality. 
Go ahead and try it out. First start by creating a file called hello.go inside GOPATH/
src/hello/, and type the contents of listing 3.1 into it. This is the traditional Hello
World! application again, but as you look at it, pay attention to the package declara-
tion and import statements.
01 package main
02
03 import "fmt"
04
05 func main(){
06
fmt.Println("Hello World!")
07 }
GETTING PACKAGE DOCUMENTATION
Don’t forget that you can get more details
on a package by visiting http://golang.org/pkg/fmt/ or running godoc fmt
from your terminal. 
Once you’ve saved the file, you can run the command go build from within the
GOPATH/src/hello/ directory. When it completes, you should see a binary file. On
Unix, Linux, and Mac OS X this file will be named hello, whereas on Windows it will
be called hello.exe. You can now run this application and see Hello World! printed to
your console.
 Had you named the package something other than main, like hello for instance,
you’d have been telling the compiler this is just a package, not a command. 
01 package hello
02
03 import "fmt"
04
05 func main(){
06
fmt.Println("Hello, World!")
07 }
Listing 3.1
Traditional Hello World! application
Listing 3.2
Invalid Go program with main function
The fmt package provides methods 
for performing formatted printing.
