51
Collaborating with other Go developers
In this example, we show the idiomatic way to document a function in Go. The docu-
mentation for the function immediately precedes the function and is written in com-
plete sentences. If you want to add a large body of text to document your package,
include a file called doc.go that declares the same package as your project, and put
your package introduction as a comment before the package declaration: 
/*
Package usb provides types and functions for working with USB
devices.
To connect to a USB device start by creating a new USB
connection with NewConnection
...
*/
package usb
This package documentation will be shown before any type or function documenta-
tion is displayed for your package. It also demonstrates using the slash-asterisk type of
comment. You can read more about creating good documentation for your code by
searching for golang documentation in Google. 
3.6
Collaborating with other Go developers
Modern developers don’t code in a vacuum, and the Go tooling recognizes and
embraces this fact. The concept of packages extends beyond your local development
environment, thanks to the go tool. Let’s look at a few conventions to follow in order
to be a good citizen in a distributed development environment. 
3.6.1
Creating repositories for sharing
Once you start cranking out awesome Go code, you’re probably going to want to share
that code with the rest of the Go community. It’s really easy as long as you follow a few
simple steps. 
PACKAGE SHOULD LIVE AT THE ROOT OF THE REPOSITORY
When you’re using go get, you specify the full path to the package that should be
imported. This means that when you create a repository that you intend to share, the
package name should be the repository name, and the package’s source should be in
the root of the repository’s directory structure. 
 A common mistake that new Go developers make is to create a code or src direc-
tory in their public repository. Doing so will make the package’s public import longer.
Instead, just put the package source files at the root of the public repository. 
PACKAGES CAN BE SMALL
It’s common in Go to see packages that are relatively small by the standards of other
programming languages. Don’t be afraid to make a package that has a small API or
performs only a single task. That’s normal and expected. 
RUN GO FMT ON THE CODE
Just like any other open source repository, people will look at your code to gauge the
quality of it before they try it out. You need to be running go fmt before checking
