65
Slice internals and fundamentals
This time the function foo takes a pointer to an array of one million elements of type
integer. The function call now passes the address of the array, which only requires
eight bytes of memory to be allocated on the stack for the pointer variable. 
 This operation is much more efficient with memory and could yield better perfor-
mance. You just need to be aware that because you’re now using a pointer, changing
the value that the pointer points to will change the memory being shared. What is
really awesome is that slices inherently take care of dealing with these types of issues,
as you’ll see. 
4.2
Slice internals and fundamentals
A slice is a data structure that provides a way for you to work with and manage collec-
tions of data. Slices are built around the concept of dynamic arrays that can grow and
shrink as you see fit. They’re flexible in terms of growth because they have their own
built-in function called append, which can grow a slice quickly with efficiency. You can
also reduce the size of a slice by slicing out a part of the underlying memory. Slices
give you all the benefits of indexing, iteration, and garbage collection optimizations
because the underlying memory is allocated in contiguous blocks. 
4.2.1
Internals
Slices are tiny objects that abstract and manipulate an underlying array. They’re three-
field data structures that contain the metadata Go needs to manipulate the underly-
ing arrays (see figure 4.9).
The three fields are a pointer to the underlying array, the length or the number of ele-
ments the slice has access to, and the capacity or the number of elements the slice has
available for growth. The difference between length and capacity will make more
sense in a bit. 
4.2.2
Creating and initializing
There are several ways to create and initialize slices in Go. Knowing the capacity you
need ahead of time will usually determine how you go about creating your slice. 
addr
Pointer
3
Length
5
Capacity
Slice of integers:
Length of three integers
Capacity for five integers
10
[ 0 ]
20
[ 1 ]
30
[ 2 ]
0
[ 3 ]
0
[ 4 ]
Figure 4.9
Slice internals with underlying array
