103
Interfaces
 The first parameter for io.Copy represents the destination and must be a value
that implements the io.Writer interface. For our destination, we pass a special inter-
face value from the os package called Stdout. This interface value represents the stan-
dard out device and already implements the io.Writer interface. When we pass the
Body and Stdout values to the io.Copy function, the function streams data from the
web server to the terminal window in small chunks. Once the last chunk is read and
written, the io.Copy function returns. 
 The io.Copy function can perform this work flow for many different types that
already exist in the standard library.
01 // Sample program to show how a bytes.Buffer can also be used
02 // with the io.Copy function.
03 package main
04
05 import (
06
"bytes"
07
"fmt"
08
"io"
09
"os"
10 )
11
12 // main is the entry point for the application.
13 func main() {
14
var b bytes.Buffer
15
16
// Write a string to the buffer.
17
b.Write([]byte("Hello"))
18
19
// Use Fprintf to concatenate a string to the Buffer.
20
fmt.Fprintf(&b, "World!")
21
22
// Write the content of the Buffer to stdout.
23
io.Copy(os.Stdout, &b)
24 }
Listing 5.35 shows a program that uses interfaces to concatenate and then stream data
to standard out. On line 14, a variable of type Buffer from the bytes package is cre-
ated, and then the Write method is used on line 17 to add the string Hello to the buf-
fer. On line 20, the Fprintf function from the fmt package is called to append a
second string to the buffer. 
 The fmt.Fprintf function accepts an interface value of type io.Writer as its first
parameter. Since pointers of type bytes.Buffer implement the io.Writer interface,
it can be passed in and the fmt.Fprintf function performs the concatenation. Finally,
on line 23 the io.Copy function is used once again to write characters to the terminal
window. Since pointers of type bytes.Buffer also implement the io.Reader inter-
face, the io.Copy function can be used to display the contents of the buffer to the ter-
minal window. 
Listing 5.35
listing35.go
