134
CHAPTER 6
Concurrency
a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z a b c d e f g h i j k l m
n o p q r s t u v w x y z a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z
Terminating Program
The amount of time it takes the first goroutine to finish displaying the alphabet is so
small that it can complete its work before the scheduler swaps it out for the second
goroutine. This is why you see the entire alphabet in capital letters first and then in
lowercase letters second. The two goroutines we created ran concurrently, one after
the other, performing their individual task of displaying the alphabet. 
 Once the two anonymous functions are created as goroutines, the code in main
keeps running. This means that the main function can return before the goroutines
complete their work. If this happens, the program will terminate before the gorou-
tines have a chance to run. On line 51, the main function therefore waits for both
goroutines to complete their work by using a WaitGroup.   
16
// wg is used to wait for the program to finish.
17
// Add a count of two, one for each goroutine.
18
var wg sync.WaitGroup
19
wg.Add(2)
23
// Declare an anonymous function and create a goroutine.
24
go func() {
25
// Schedule the call to Done to tell main we are done.
26
defer wg.Done()
49
// Wait for the goroutines to finish.
50
fmt.Println("Waiting To Finish")
51
wg.Wait()
A WaitGroup is a counting semaphore that can be used to maintain a record of run-
ning goroutines. When the value of a WaitGroup is greater than zero, the Wait
method will block. On line 18 a variable of type WaitGroup is created, and then on
line 19 we set the value of the WaitGroup to 2, noting two running goroutines. To dec-
rement the value of the WaitGroup and eventually release the main function, calls to
the Done method on lines 26 and 39 are made within the scope of a defer statement. 
 The keyword defer is used to schedule other functions from inside the executing
function to be called when the function returns. In the case of our sample program,
we use the keyword defer to guarantee that the method call to Done is made once
each goroutine is finished with its work. 
 Based on the internal algorithms of the scheduler, a running goroutine can be
stopped and rescheduled to run again before it finishes its work. The scheduler does
this to prevent any single goroutine from holding the logical processor hostage. It will
stop the currently running goroutine and give another runnable goroutine a chance
to run. 
 Figure 6.4 shows this scenario from a logical processor point of view. In step 1 the
scheduler begins to execute goroutine A while goroutine B waits for its turn in the
Listing 6.3
listing01.go: lines 17–19, 23–26, 49–51
