156
CHAPTER 6
Concurrency
Worker: 1 : Completed Task : 7
Worker: 1 : Started Task : 10
Worker: 4 : Completed Task : 6
Worker: 4 : Shutting Down
Worker: 3 : Completed Task : 9
Worker: 3 : Shutting Down
Worker: 2 : Completed Task : 8
Worker: 2 : Shutting Down
Worker: 1 : Completed Task : 10
Worker: 1 : Shutting Down
Because of the random nature of the program and the Go scheduler, the output for
this program will be different every time you run it. But the use of all four goroutines
to process work from the buffered channel won’t change. You can see from the output
how each goroutine is receiving work distributed from the channel.
 In the main function on line 31, a buffered channel of type string is created with
a capacity of 10. On line 34 the WaitGroup is given the count of 4, one for each gorou-
tine that’s going to be created. Then on lines 35 through 37, four goroutines are cre-
ated and passed the channel they will be receiving the work on. On lines 40 through
42, 10 strings are sent into the channel to simulate work for the goroutines. Once the
last string is sent into the channel, the channel is closed on line 46 and the main func-
tion waits for all the work to be completed on line 49. 
 Closing the channel on line 46 is an important piece of code. When a channel is
closed, goroutines can still perform receives on the channel but can no longer send
on the channel. Being able to receive on a closed channel is important because it
allows the channel to be emptied of all its values with future receives, so nothing in
the channel is ever lost. A receive on a closed and empty channel always returns imme-
diately and provides the zero value for the type the channel is declared with. If you
also request the optional flag on the channel receive, you can get information about
the state of the channel. 
 Inside the worker function you find an endless for loop on line 58. Within the loop,
all of the received work is processed. Each goroutine blocks on line 60 waiting to receive
work from the channel. Once the receive returns, the ok flag is checked to see if the
channel is both empty and closed. If the value of ok is false, the goroutine terminates,
which causes the defer statement on line 56 to call Done and report back to main. 
 If the ok flag is true, then the value received is valid. Lines 71 and 72 simulate
work being processed. Once the work is done, the goroutine blocks again in the
receive of the channel on line 60. Once the channel is closed, the receive on the chan-
nel returns immediately and the goroutine terminates itself. 
 The examples for the unbuffered and buffered channels provided a good sam-
pling of the kind of code you can write with channels. In the next chapter we’ll look at
real-world concurrency patterns that you could use in your own projects. 
