163
Runner
41
timeout:
time.After(d),
42
}
43 }
Listing 7.8 shows a factory function called New, which accepts a value of type
time.Duration and returns a pointer of type Runner. The function creates a value of
type Runner and initializes each of the channel fields. The tasks field is not explicitly
initialized, since the zero value for this field is a nil slice. Each channel field has a
unique initialization, so let’s explore each one in more detail.
 The interrupt channel is initialized as a buffered channel with a buffer of 1. This
guarantees at least one os.Signal value is received from the runtime. The runtime
sends this event in a nonblocking way. If a goroutine isn’t ready to receive this value,
the value is thrown away. As an example, if the user hits Ctrl+C repeatedly, the pro-
gram will receive the event only when a buffer is available in the channel and all other
events will be thrown away. 
 The complete channel is initialized as an unbuffered channel. When the gorou-
tine running the tasks is finished, it sends an error value or nil error value on this
channel. Then it waits for main to receive it. Once main receives the error value, it’s
safe for the goroutine to terminate. 
 The final channel, timeout, is initialized using the After function from the time
package. The After function returns a channel of type time.Time. The runtime will
send a time.Time value on this channel after the specified duration has elapsed. 
 Now that you’ve seen how a Runner value is created and initialized, we can look at
the methods associated with the Runner type. The first method, Add, is used to capture
the task functions to be executed.
45 // Add attaches tasks to the Runner. A task is a function that
46 // takes an int ID.
47 func (r *Runner) Add(tasks ...func(int)) {
48
r.tasks = append(r.tasks, tasks...)
49 }
Listing 7.9 shows the Add method, which is declared with a single varadic parameter
named tasks. Varadic parameters can accept any number of values that are passed in. In
this case the value must be a function that accepts a single integer value and returns
nothing. The tasks parameter, once inside the code, becomes a slice of these func-
tion values. 
 Now let’s look at the run method.
72 // run executes each registered task.
73 func (r *Runner) run() error {
74
for id, task := range r.tasks {
Listing 7.9
runner/runner.go: lines 45–49
Listing 7.10
runner/runner.go: lines 72–85
