203
Input and output
8.4
Input and output
One of the things that makes the UNIX-based operating systems so great is the idea
that the output of one program can be the input for another. This philosophy has cre-
ated a suite of simple programs that do only one thing and do it really well. Then, by
composing programs together, scripts can be created to do some amazing things. In
this world the stdout and stdin devices serve as the conduits to move data between
processes. 
 This same idea has been extended to the io package, and the functionality that it
provides is amazing. The package supports working with streams of data very effi-
ciently, regardless of what the data is, where it’s coming from, or where it’s going.
Instead of stdout and stdin, you have two interfaces called io.Writer and
io.Reader. Values from types that implement these interfaces can be used against all
the functionality provided by the io package or any function and method in any other
package that also accepts values of these interface types. That’s the real beauty of cre-
ating functionality and APIs from interfaces types. Developers can compose on top of
existing functionality, take advantage of what exists, and focus on the business prob-
lems they’re trying to solve.
 With this in mind, let’s start by looking at the declaration for the io.Writer and
io.Reader interfaces and then examine code examples that showcase some of the
amazing functionality of the io package. 
8.4.1
Writer and Reader interfaces
The io package is built around working with values from types that implement the
io.Writer and io.Reader interfaces. The functions and methods that make up the io
package have no understanding about the type of data nor how that data is physically
read and written. This is thanks to the abstraction that the io.Writer and io.Reader
interfaces provide. Let’s start by looking at the declaration of the io.Writer interface.
type Writer interface {
Write(p []byte) (n int, err error)
}
Listing 8.33 shows the declaration of the io.Writer interface. The interface declares
a single method called Write that accepts a byte slice and returns two values. The first
value is the number of bytes written, and the second value is an error. The rules for
implementing this method are as follows.
Write writes len(p) bytes from p to the underlying data stream. It
returns the number of bytes written from p (0 <= n <= len(p)) and any
error encountered that caused the write to stop early. Write must
return a non-nil error if it returns n < len(p). Write must not modify
the slice data, even temporarily.
Listing 8.33
Declaration of the io.Writer interface
Listing 8.34
Documentation for the io.Writer interface
