214
CHAPTER 9
Testing and benchmarking
04 import (
05
"net/http"
06
"testing"
07 )
08
09 const checkMark = "\u2713"
10 const ballotX = "\u2717"
In listing 9.2, you can see the import of the testing package on line 06. The testing
package provides the support we need from the testing framework to report the out-
put and status of any test. Lines 09 and 10 provide two constants that contain the char-
acters for the check mark and X mark that will be used when writing test output. 
 Next, let’s look at the declaration of the test function.
12 // TestDownload validates the http Get function can download content.
13 func TestDownload(t *testing.T) {
The name of the test function is TestDownload, and you can see it on line 13 in list-
ing 9.3. A test function must be an exported function that begins with the word Test.
Not only must the function start with the word Test, it must have a signature that
accepts a pointer of type testing.T and returns no value. If we don’t follow these
conventions, the testing framework won’t recognize the function as a test function
and none of the tooling will work against it. 
 The pointer of type testing.T is important. It provides the mechanism for report-
ing the output and status of each test. There’s no one standard for formatting the out-
put of your tests. I like the test output to read well, which does follow the Go idioms
for writing documentation. For me, the testing output is documentation for the code.
The test output should document why the test exists, what’s being tested, and the
result of the test in clear complete sentences that are easy to read. Let’s see how I
accomplish this as we review more of the code.
14
url := "http://www.goinggo.net/feeds/posts/default?alt=rss"
15
statusCode := 200
16
17
t.Log("Given the need to test downloading content.")
18
{
You see on lines 14 and 15 in listing 9.4 that two variables are declared and initialized.
These variables contain the URL we want to test and the status we expect back from
the response. On line 17 the t.Log method is used to write a message to the test out-
put. There’s also a format version of this method called t.Logf. If the verbose option
(-v) isn’t used when calling go test, we won’t see any test output unless the test fails. 
 Each test function should state why the test exists by explaining the given need of
the test. For this test, the given need is to test downloading content. After declaring
Listing 9.3
listing01_test.go: lines 12–13
Listing 9.4
listing01_test.go: lines 14–18
