Kennedy ● Ketelsen ● Martin
A
pplication development can be tricky enough even when 
you aren’t dealing with complex systems programming 
problems like web-scale concurrency and real-time 
performance. While it’s possible to solve these common issues 
with additional tools and frameworks, Go handles them right 
out of the box, making for a more natural and productive 
coding experience. Developed at Google, Go powers nimble 
startups as well as big enterprises—companies that rely on 
high-performing services in their infrastructure.
Go in Action is for any intermediate-level developer who has 
experience with other programming languages and wants a 
jump-start in learning Go or a more thorough understanding 
of the language and its internals. This book provides an inten-
sive, comprehensive, and idiomatic view of Go. It focuses on 
the speciﬁ cation and implementation of the language, includ-
ing topics like language syntax, Go’s type system, concurrency, 
channels, and testing. 
What’s Inside
● Language speciﬁ cation and implementation
● Go’s type system
● Internals of Go’s data structures
● Testing and benchmarking
This book assumes you’re a working developer proﬁ cient with 
another language like Java, Ruby, Python, C#, or C++.
William Kennedy is a seasoned software developer and author 
of the blog GoingGo.Net. Brian Ketelsen and Erik St. Martin are 
the organizers of GopherCon and coauthors of the Go-based 
Skynet framework
To download their free eBook in PDF, ePub, and Kindle formats, owners 
of this book should visit manning.com/books/go-in-action
$44.99 / Can $51.99  [INCLUDING eBOOK]
GO IN ACTION
PROGRAMMING
M A N N I N G
“
A concise and 
comprehensive guide 
to exploring, learning, 
  and using Go.”
 
—From the Foreword
by Steven Francia
Creator of Hugo
“
This authoritative book 
is a one-stop shop for anyone 
just starting out with Go.”
—Sam Zaydel, RackTop Systems
“
Brilliantly written; 
a comprehensive 
introduction to Go. 
  Highly recommended.”
 
—Adam McKay, SUEZ
“
This book makes the 
uncommon parts of  
Go understandable 
and digestible.”
—Alex Vidal
HipChat at Atlassian
SEE INSERT
