234
CHAPTER 9
Testing and benchmarking
 
go test -v -run="none" -bench="BenchmarkSprintf"
In our call to go test, we specified the -run option passing the string "none" to make
sure no unit tests are run prior to running the specified benchmark function. Both of
these options take a regular expression to filter the tests to run. Since there’s no unit
test function that has none in its name, none eliminates any unit tests from running.
When we issue this command, we get the output shown in figure 9.14. 
The output starts out specifying that there are no tests to run and then proceeds to
run the BenchmarkSprintf benchmark. After the word PASS, you see the result of run-
ning the benchmark function. The first number, 5000000, represents the number of
times the code inside the loop was executed. In this case, that’s five million times. The
next number represents the performance of the code based on the number of nano-
seconds per operation, so using the Sprintf function in this context takes 258 nano-
seconds on average per call. 
 The final output from running the benchmark shows ok to represent the bench-
mark finished properly. Then the name of the code file that was executed is displayed,
and finally, the total time the benchmark ran. The default minimum run time for a
benchmark is 1 second. You can see how the framework still ran the test for approxi-
mately a second and a half. You can use another option called -benchtime if you want
to have the test run longer. Let’s run the test again using a bench time of three sec-
onds (see figure 9.15).
 This time the Sprintf function was run twenty million times for a period of 5.275
seconds. The performance of the function didn’t change much. This time the perfor-
mance was 256 nanoseconds per operation. Sometimes by increasing the bench time,
you can get a more accurate reading of performance. For most tests, increasing the
bench time over three seconds tends to not provide any difference for an accurate
reading. But each benchmark is different. 
Listing 9.31
Running the benchmark test
Figure 9.14
Running a single benchmark
Figure 9.15
Running a single benchmark with the -benchtime option
