Testing
89
39
}
40
}
In this example we see the t.Fatal method used for the first time. This method is similar to t.Error,
but unlike t.Error, if t.Fatal is called, the test will not execute any further. This is useful when a
condition happens that will cause the rest of the test to be unnecessary. In our case, if our call to
create a request on line 11 were to fail for some reason, the call to t.Fatal ensures that we log the
error and abandon execution immediately. Anagolous to t.Errorf, there is also a t.Fatalf method,
which takes arguments the same way as fmt.Printf.
On line 19 we create a new httptest.Recorder with which to record the response. We also
create handler, which is helloHandler, but now of type http.HandlerFunc. We can do this, because
helloHandler uses the appropriate signature defined by http.HandlerFunc²⁹:
type HandlerFunc func(ResponseWriter, *Request)
http.HandlerFunc is an adapter to allow the use of ordinary functions as HTTP handlers. As the final
step of the setup, we pass the recorder and the request we created earlier in to handler.ServeHTTP(r,
req). Now we can use the fields provided by httptest.Recorder, like Code and Body, to make assertions
against our HTTP handler, as shown in the final lines of the test function.
Mocking
Imagine you need to test code that uses a third party library. Perhaps this library is a client library
to an external API, or perhaps it performs database operations. In your unit tests, it is best to assume
that the library does its job, and only test your functions and their interactions. This allows your test
case failures to accurately reflect where the problem is, rather than leave the question of whether
it’s your function, or the library, that’s at fault. There is a place for tests that include third party
libraries, and that place is in integration tests, not unit tests.
How do we go about testing our functions, but not the libraries they use? The answer: interfaces.
Interfaces are an incredibly powerful tool in Go.
In Java, interfaces need to be explicitly implemented. You rely on your third party vendor to provide
an interface that you can use to stub methods for tests. In Go, we don’t need to rely on the third party
author; we can define our own interface. As long as our interface defines a subset of the methods
implemented by the library, the library will automatically implement our interface.
The next example illustrates one particular case where mocking is very useful: testing code that
relies on random number generation.
²⁹https://golang.org/pkg/net/http/#HandlerFunc
