Testing
A critical part of any production-ready system is a complete test suite. If you have not written tests
before, and wonder why they are important, this introduction is for you. If you already understand
the importance of proper testing, you can skip to the particulars of writing tests in Go, in writing
tests.
Why do we need tests?
A line of reasoning we sometimes hear, is that “my code clearly works, why do I need to write tests
for it?” This is a natural enough question, but make no mistake, a modern production-ready system
absolutely must have automated tests. Let’s use an analogy from the business world to understand
why this is so: double entry bookkeeping.
Double entry is the idea that every financial transaction has equal and opposite effects in at least two
different accounts. For example, if you spend $10 on groceries, your bank account goes down by $10,
and your groceries account goes up by $10. This trick allows you to see, at a glance, simultaneously
how much money is in your bank account, and how much you spent on groceries. It also allows you
to spot mistakes. Suppose a smudge in your books made the $10 entry look like $18. The total balance
of your assets would no longer match your liabilities plus equity - there would be an $8 difference.
We can compare entries in the bank account with entries in the groceries account to discover which
amount is incorrect. Before double-entry bookkeeping, it was much harder to prove mistakes, and
impossible to see different account balances at a glance. The idea revolutionized bookkeeping, and
underpins accounting to this day.
Back to tests. For every piece of functionality we write, we also write a test. The test should prove
that the code works in all reasonable scenarios. Like double-entry bookkeeping, tests are our way to
ensure our system is correct, and remains correct. Your system might work now - you might even
prove it to yourself by trying out some cases manually. But systems, especially production systems,
require changes over time. Requirements change, environments change, bugs emerge, new features
become needed, inefficiencies are discovered. All these things will require changes to be made to
the code. After making these changes, will you still be sure that the system is correct? Will you run
through manual test cases after every change? What if someone else is maintaining the code? Will
they know how to test changes? How much time will it take you to manually perform these test
cases?
Automated tests cost up-front investment, but they uncover bugs early, improve maintainability,
and save time in the long run. Tests are the checks and balances to your production system.
