149
7.3
#50: Checking an error type inaccurately
 Let’s review all the different options we tackled.
To summarize, when handling an error, we can decide to wrap it. Wrapping is about
adding additional context to an error and/or marking an error as a specific type. If we
need to mark an error, we should create a custom error type. However, if we just want
to add extra context, we should use fmt.Errorf with the %w directive as it doesn’t
require creating a new error type. Yet, error wrapping creates potential coupling as it
makes the source error available for the caller. If we want to prevent it, we shouldn’t use
error wrapping but error transformation, for example, using fmt.Errorf with the %v
directive.
 This section has shown how to wrap an error with the %w directive. But once we
start using it, what’s the impact of checking an error type?
7.3
#50: Checking an error type inaccurately
The previous section introduced a possible way to wrap errors using the %w directive.
However, when we use that approach, it’s also essential to change our way of checking
for a specific error type; otherwise, we may handle errors inaccurately.
 Let’s discuss a concrete example. We will write an HTTP handler to return the
transaction amount from an ID. Our handler will parse the request to get the ID and
retrieve the amount from a database (DB). Our implementation can fail in two cases:
If the ID is invalid (string length other than five characters)
If querying the DB fails
In the former case, we want to return StatusBadRequest (400), whereas in the latter,
we want to return ServiceUnavailable (503). To do so, we will create a transient-
Error type to mark that an error is temporary. The parent handler will check the
error type. If the error is a transientError, it will return a 503 status code; otherwise,
it will return a 400 status code.
 Let’s first focus on the error type definition and the function the handler will call:
type transientError struct {
err error
}
Option
Extra context
Marking an 
error
Source error available
Returning error directly
No
No
Yes
Custom error type
Possible (if the error type 
contains a string field, for 
example)
Yes
Possible (if the source error is 
exported or accessible via a 
method)
fmt.Errorf with %w
Yes
No
Yes
fmt.Errorf with %v
Yes
No
No
