98
CHAPTER 5
Displaying content
PHP originated as a standalone web template engine, but today many PHP pages are
written without a single line of HTML. It’s difficult to even say that PHP is still a template
engine. In fact, plenty of template engines, like Smarty and Blade, are built for PHP.
 The biggest argument against embedded logic template engines is that presenta-
tion and logic are mixed up together and logic is distributed in multiple places, result-
ing in code that’s hard to maintain. The counter-argument against logic-less template
engines is that the ideal logic-less template engine would be impractical and that plac-
ing more logic into the handlers, especially for presentation, would add unnecessary
complexity to the handlers.
 In reality, most useful template engines would lie somewhere between these two
ideal types, with some closer to being logic-less and others closer to having embedded
logic. Go’s template engine, mostly in text/template and the HTML-specific bits in
html/template, is such a hybrid. It can be used as a logic-less template engine, but
there’s enough embedded features that make Go’s template engine an interesting
and powerful one.
5.2
The Go template engine
The Go template engine, like most template engines, lies somewhere along the spec-
trum between logic-less and embedded logic. In a web app, the handler normally trig-
gers the template engine. Figure 5.2 shows how Go’s template engine is called from a
handler. The handler calls the template engine, passing it the template(s) to be used,
usually as a list of template files and the dynamic data. The template engine then gen-
erates the HTML and writes it to the ResponseWriter, which adds it to the HTTP
response sent back to the client.
 Go templates are text documents (for web apps, these would normally be HTML
files), with certain commands embedded in them, called actions. In the Go template
Client
Multiplexer
Handler
Handler
Handler
Server
Request
Response
Model
Model
Model
Database
Model
Template engine
Templates
Figure 5.2
The Go template engine as part of a web application
