18
CHAPTER 2
Code and project organization
They provide a debugging interception point for when the property changes at
run time, making debugging easier.
If we fall into these cases or foresee a possible use case while guaranteeing forward
compatibility, using getters and setters can bring some value. For example, if we use
them with a field called balance, we should follow these naming conventions:
The getter method should be named Balance (not GetBalance).
The setter method should be named SetBalance.
Here’s an example:
currentBalance := customer.Balance()
if currentBalance < 0 {
customer.SetBalance(0)
}
In summary, we shouldn’t overwhelm our code with getters and setters on structs if
they don’t bring any value. We should be pragmatic and strive to find the right bal-
ance between efficiency and following idioms that are sometimes considered indisput-
able in other programming paradigms.
 Remember that Go is a unique language designed for many characteristics, includ-
ing simplicity. However, if we find a need for getters and setters or, as mentioned, fore-
see a future need while guaranteeing forward compatibility, there’s nothing wrong
with using them.
 Next, we will discuss the problem of overusing interfaces. 
2.5
#5: Interface pollution
Interfaces are one of the cornerstones of the Go language when designing and struc-
turing our code. However, like many tools or concepts, abusing them is generally not a
good idea. Interface pollution is about overwhelming our code with unnecessary
abstractions, making it harder to understand. It’s a common mistake made by devel-
opers coming from another language with different habits. Before delving into the
topic, let’s refresh our minds about Go’s interfaces. Then, we will see when it’s appro-
priate to use interfaces and when it may be considered pollution.
2.5.1
Concepts
An interface provides a way to specify the behavior of an object. We use interfaces to
create common abstractions that multiple objects can implement. What makes Go
interfaces so different is that they are satisfied implicitly. There is no explicit keyword
like implements to mark that an object X implements interface Y.
 To understand what makes interfaces so powerful, we will dig into two popular
ones from the standard library: io.Reader and io.Writer. The io package provides
abstractions for I/O primitives. Among these abstractions, io.Reader relates to read-
ing data from a data source and io.Writer to writing data to a target, as represented
in figure 2.3.
Getter
Setter
