24
CHAPTER 2
Code and project organization
 In this section, we saw three potential use cases where interfaces are generally con-
sidered as bringing value: factoring out a common behavior, creating some decou-
pling, and restricting a type to a certain behavior. Again, this list isn’t exhaustive, but it
should give us a general understanding of when interfaces are helpful in Go.
 Now, let’s finish this section and discuss the problems with interface pollution. 
2.5.3
Interface pollution
It’s fairly common to see interfaces being overused in Go projects. Perhaps the devel-
oper’s background was C# or Java, and they found it natural to create interfaces
before concrete types. However, this isn’t how things should work in Go.
 As we discussed, interfaces are made to create abstractions. And the main caveat
when programming meets abstractions is remembering that abstractions should be dis-
covered, not created. What does this mean? It means we shouldn’t start creating abstrac-
tions in our code if there is no immediate reason to do so. We shouldn’t design with
interfaces but wait for a concrete need. Said differently, we should create an interface
when we need it, not when we foresee that we could need it.
 What’s the main problem if we overuse interfaces? The answer is that they make
the code flow more complex. Adding a useless level of indirection doesn’t bring any
value; it creates a worthless abstraction making the code more difficult to read, under-
stand, and reason about. If we don’t have a strong reason for adding an interface and
it’s unclear how an interface makes a code better, we should challenge this interface’s
purpose. Why not call the implementation directly?
NOTE
We may also experience performance overhead when calling a
method through an interface. It requires a lookup in a hash table’s data struc-
ture to find the concrete type an interface points to. But this isn’t an issue in
many contexts as the overhead is minimal.
In summary, we should be cautious when creating abstractions in our code—abstrac-
tions should be discovered, not created. It’s common for us, software developers, to
overengineer our code by trying to guess what the perfect level of abstraction is, based
on what we think we might need later. This process should be avoided because, in
most cases, it pollutes our code with unnecessary abstractions, making it more com-
plex to read.
Don’t design with interfaces, discover them.
                                                                 —Rob Pike
Let’s not try to solve a problem abstractly but solve what has to be solved now. Last, but
not least, if it’s unclear how an interface makes the code better, we should probably
consider removing it to make our code simpler.
 The following section continues with this thread and discusses a common interface
mistake: creating interfaces on the producer side. 
