115
5.2
#37: Inaccurate string iteration
 These simple characters are encoded using a single byte each. This is why getting
the length of s returns 5:
s := "hello"
fmt.Println(len(s)) // 5
But a character isn’t always encoded into a single byte. Coming back to the 汉 charac-
ter, we mentioned that with UTF-8, this character is encoded into three bytes. We can
validate this with the following example:
s := "汉"
fmt.Println(len(s)) // 3
Instead of printing 1, this example prints 3. Indeed, the len built-in function applied
on a string doesn’t return the number of characters; it returns the number of bytes.
 Conversely, we can create a string from a list of bytes. We mentioned that the 汉
character was encoded using three bytes, 0xE6, 0xB1, and 0x89:
s := string([]byte{0xE6, 0xB1, 0x89})
fmt.Printf("%s\n", s)
Here, we build a string composed of these three bytes. When we print the string,
instead of printing three characters, the code prints a single one: 汉.
 In summary:
A charset is a set of characters, whereas an encoding describes how to translate
a charset into binary.
In Go, a string references an immutable slice of arbitrary bytes.
Go source code is encoded using UTF-8. Hence, all string literals are UTF-8
strings. But because a string can contain arbitrary bytes, if it’s obtained from
somewhere else (not the source code), it isn’t guaranteed to be based on the
UTF-8 encoding.
A rune corresponds to the concept of a Unicode code point, meaning an item
represented by a single value.
Using UTF-8, a Unicode code point can be encoded into 1 to 4 bytes.
Using len on a string in Go returns the number of bytes, not the number of runes.
Having these concepts in mind is essential because runes as everywhere in Go. Let’s
see a concrete application of this knowledge involving a common mistake related to
string iteration. 
5.2
#37: Inaccurate string iteration
Iterating on a string is a common operation for developers. Perhaps we want to per-
form an operation for each rune in the string or implement a custom function to
search for a specific substring. In both cases, we have to iterate on the different runes
of a string. But it’s easy to get confused about how iteration works.
