187
TECHNIQUE 47
Verify uploaded file is allowed type
 After the form has been parsed, the fields are available on MultipartForm. The
uploads to the file-input field with the name files are available on the File property
of MultipartForm as a slice of values. Each value is a *multipart.FileHeader object.
 Iterate over the files to process each of them. Calling the Open method on a
*multipart.FileHeader object returns File, a handler for the file. To save the file to
disk, you need to create a new file somewhere to save the contents. The name of the
uploaded file is available in the Filename property on the *multipart.FileHeader.
After you have a local location to store the contents, copy the uploaded file to the
local file by using io.Copy.
 This solution requires moving a level lower in the package API. In doing so, you
open up a little more power while needing to handle a little more on your own.
TECHNIQUE 47
Verify uploaded file is allowed type
When a file is uploaded, it could be any type of file. The upload field could be expect-
ing an image, a document, or something else altogether. But is that what was
uploaded? How would you handle an improper file being uploaded?
 Client-side detection is sometimes seen as an option. For example, input fields
with a type of file can have an accept property with a list of extensions or MIME types,
also referred to as content types. Unfortunately, the accept property isn’t implemented
in all browsers. Even in the browsers where it works, the ability to easily alter the value
makes it unreliable. Type checking needs to happen in your application.
PROBLEM
How can you detect the type of file uploaded to a file field inside your application?
SOLUTION
To get the MIME type for a file, you can use one of a few ways, with varying degrees of
trust in the value: 
When a file is uploaded, the request headers will have a Content-Type field
with either a specific content type, such as image/png, or a general value of
application/octet-stream.
A file extension is associated with a MIME type and can provide insight into the
type of file being uploaded.
You can parse the file and detect the content type based on the contents of the
file.
DISCUSSION
The three solutions have varying degrees of trust. The Content-Type field is set by
the application doing the uploading, and the file extension is set by the user upload-
ing the file. These two methods rely on outside parties for accuracy and trust. The
third solution requires parsing the file and knowing what to look for to map to a con-
tent type. This is the most difficult method and uses the most system resources, but is
also the most trusted one. To understand how to use these methods, you’ll look at
each of them.
