176
CHAPTER 7
Serving and receiving assets and forms
updating the same cache item, mutex.Lock is called. This waits for any current read-
ers or writers to complete while blocking any future ones. Releasing the lock so that
readers and other writers can access cache is done by deferring the mutex.UnLock call.
 After the lock is in place, an attempt is made to load the file from the filesystem,
with the closing of the file being deferred to the exit of the function. If the file isn’t
found or another error occurs, the 404 Not Found message is displayed. This is a
place where you could optionally cache File Not Found responses and log the error
messages.
 The content of the file is copied into Buffer, and then the bytes are transferred
into a Reader instance. This happens because Buffer can be written to. The content
of the File can be copied into it. Reader implements both the io.Reader
and io.Seeker interfaces needed by ServeContent. To take advantage of the
If-Modified-Since HTTP header, the last modified time is retrieved from the file and
stored in the cache alongside the content itself.
 Finally, the cached file is served using ServeContent. This function does a lot of
work for you. Looking at the requested filename, it attempts to figure out the MIME
type and set the proper headers. It looks at the last modified time and sets the headers
to provide 304 Not Modified HTTP responses where appropriate. When it serves the
content, it figures out information such as the content length to set the appropriate
headers.
TIP
Using a memory-caching service such as groupcache (https://github
.com/golang/groupcache) can provide a shared memory cache between serv-
ers. This is useful when the file storage isn’t local, a common situation in file
serving at scale.
Serving files from memory is something that should be done with care. Loading many
files into memory without monitoring runtime memory or cleaning up can cause
problems. These should be monitored and managed, and what’s kept in memory
should be optimized for your use cases. You don’t want a server running out of mem-
ory or an application’s memory footprint to grow unwatched or unregulated. 
TECHNIQUE 42
Embedding files in a binary
Sometimes you’ll want to include assets right inside the application binary. Then,
instead of looking for them on the filesystem, they’re included in the application
binary. This can be useful when distributing an application. The binary is the only
thing needing to be distributed, rather than a collection of files to accompany it.
PROBLEM
You want to include static assets, such as images or stylesheets, in a Go binary.
SOLUTION
Store the assets as data assigned to variables in your application. Serve files from these
variables instead of the filesystem. Because of the intricate nature of converting files’
