172
CHAPTER 7
Serving and receiving assets and forms
are displayed or what language they’re displayed in while using FileServer or Serve-
File. Technique 40 provides a method to make these changes.
 The second gotcha when serving a directory of files is simpler to work around.
When serving a directory and its subdirectories, you need a path-resolution method
that will work for subdirectories. For example, if the path package is used in order to
resolve wildcard paths, you’d be limited to the base directory. Paying attention to path
resolution is important if your application serves files and generates other content. To
illustrate the problem, let’s look at the pathResolver from listing 2.17 along with the
following main function in listing 7.4.
TIP
Wildcard path routing is covered in chapter 2. Listing 2.17 provides a
simple example relating to the problem described here.
func main() {
     pr := newPathResolver()
     pr.Add("GET /hello", hello)
     dir := http.Dir("./files")
     handler := http.StripPrefix("/static/", http.FileServer(dir))
     pr.Add("GET /static/*", handler.ServeHTTP)
     http.ListenAndServe(":8080", pr)
}
This code is set up to serve both content and files. A file in the files directory will be
served, but any subdirectories of files won’t have their files served. This is because the
* used as a wildcard in the path package stays at one directory level. The solution is to
use a different method for path resolution, such as the regular expression method
described in chapter 2.
TECHNIQUE 40
File server with custom error pages
The built-in file server in the Go standard library generates error pages, including the
common 404 Not Found error for you. This is presented as English text, rather than a
web page, and can’t be changed.
 What if you’re building an application for those who don’t know English? Or what
if you want to build response pages to help people find the content they’re looking for
when they ended up with a Not Found error? These are common situations.
PROBLEM
How can you specify your own error pages, including a response to a file not being
found, when your application is serving files? 
SOLUTION
Use a custom file server that allows you to specify handlers for error pages. The
github.com/Masterminds/go-fileserver package provides functionality to comple-
ment the built-in file server while enabling custom error handling.
Listing 7.4
Using path package path resolution
