171
TECHNIQUE 39
Serving subdirectories
TECHNIQUE 39
Serving subdirectories
A common practice, used in many frameworks and applications, is to serve files from
the local filesystem where the application resides. This allows other applications to
mount external filesystems as if they were local or have them local.
PROBLEM
You want to serve a directory and its subdirectories from the filesystem as part of your
web application.
SOLUTION
Use the built-in file server or the file-serving handlers to serve the files from the local
filesystem. For intimate control over error pages, including the case of a file not being
found, you need to implement your own file server.
DISCUSSION
An easy way to understand file serving is to look at a simple example. Take the direc-
tory example_app/static/ and serve it from the path example.com/static/. This may
seem fairly straightforward, and for some cases it is, but if you want intimate control
over the experience, you’ll see in a moment that you need to bypass some of the built-
in file serving to have that control. First, let’s look at a simple example.
func main() {
     dir := http.Dir("./files/")
     handler := http.StripPrefix("/static/", http.FileServer(dir))
     http.Handle("/static/", handler) 
     http.HandleFunc("/", homePage)
     http.ListenAndServe(":8080", nil)
}
Here, the built-in web server is serving the ./files/ directory at the path /static/ by
using the file server from the http package. The directory on the filesystem could be
any directory and doesn’t need to be within the source for the application. Strip-
Prefix is used to remove any prefix in the URL before passing the path to the file
server to find. When serving a subpath in your application, this is needed to find the
right files.
 This approach has two gotchas that you should be aware of. The first has to do with
generating error pages, which includes the common 404 Not Found error. You may
want to customize these pages in your website or application. It’s common to have styl-
ized or even specialized error pages to help end users. FileServer and ServeFile
return a basic error message as text. It’s not a web page, but rather English text that
browsers display on a white background. There’s no opportunity to change how these
Listing 7.3
Serving a subdirectory
A directory and its subdirectories on
the filesystem are chosen to serve.
The /static/ path serves the
directory and needs to be removed
before looking up file path.
Serves a home page that may include 
files from the static directory
