169
Serving static content
 From there, we move into form handling. Form handling with Go may seem fairly
straightforward, and for simple cases it is. Yet, cases such as handling files as multipart
form data can require tapping into parts of Go not often touched or understood. This
is especially true if you want to work with large files.
 File serving and form handling combined with template handling from the previ-
ous chapter lay a foundation for building web applications in Go. You can use these
techniques with your front-end technologies of choice to build rich web applications.
7.1
Serving static content
A website or web application built with Go doesn’t need to sit behind a web server.
Instead, it handles serving all of the content with its web server, whether that content
is application pages or static files, such as CSS, images, or JavaScript. Figure 7.1 illus-
trates the difference between a Go application and one using a separate web server.
A common pattern has an
application running behind a
web server. The web server
receives user connections
and passes data between the
connection and application. 
A Go application receives
connections directly from
clients using a built-in web
server. No intermediate
application is necessary. Go
handles the thread
management.
Web
Server
Application process
Application process
Application process
...
Operating system
Operating system
Go application
HTTP server package
Figure 7.1
A Go application communicating over HTTP compared to a common web server model
Common Gateway Interface
Although Go is typically run as a server that serves all content, it can be used with a
Common Gateway Interface (CGI) or FastCGI server. The net/http/cgi package
works with the CGI interface, and the net/http/fastcgi package works with a
FastCGI interface. In this environment, static content may be served by another web
server. These packages are intended for compatibility with existing systems. CGI
starts up a new process to respond to each request, which is less efficient than typ-
ical Go serving. This is a setup we don’t recommend using.
