Supporting Unicode
Part of preparing production-ready code is making sure that it behaves as expected for supported
languages and inputs. In the previous chapter, we showed how easy Go makes many common string
manipulation tasks. Many of these examples were implicitly English-centric, with only some hints
that there may be more brewing below the surface when it comes to handling international character
sets. In this chapter we will examine strings in greater depth, and learn how to write bug-free,
production-ready code that handles strings in any language supported by the Unicode standard.
We will start by taking a detour through the history of string encodings. This will then inform the
rest of our discussion on handling different character sets in Go.
A very brief history of string encodings
What are string encodings, and why do we need them? You can skip this section if you already know
the difference between Unicode and UTF-8, and between a character and a Unicode code point.
Consider how a computer might represent a string of text. Because computers operate on binary,
human-readable text needs to be represented as binary numbers in some way. Early computer
pioneers came up with one such scheme, which they called ASCII (pronounced ASS-kee). ASCII is
one way of mapping characters to numbers. For example, A is 65 (binary 0100 0001, or hexadecimal
0x41), B is 66, C is 67, and so on. We could represent the ASCII-encoded string “ABC” in hexadecimal
notation, like so:
0x41 0x42 0x43
ASCII defines a mapping for 127 different characters, using exactly 7 bits. For the old 8-bit systems,
this was perfect. The only problem is ASCII only covers unaccented English letters.
As computers became more widespread, other countries also needed to represent their text in binary
format, and unaccented English letters were not enough. So a plethora of new encodings were
invented. Now when code encountered a string, it also needed to know which encoding the string
is using in order to map the bytes to the correct human-readable characters.
Identifying this as a problem, a group called the Unicode consortium undertook the herculean task
of assigning a number to every letter used in any language. Such a magic number is called a Unicode
code point, and is represented by a U+ followed by a hexadecimal number. For example, the string
“ABC” corresponds to these three Unicode code points:
