used in Go community. Personally, I think the terminology makes some conveniences when making
some explanations.)
2.2
Value/type sizes
The size of a value part means how many bytes are needed to be allocated in memory to store the
value part at run time.
The size of a value exactly equals to the size of the direct part of the value. In other words, the
indirect parts of a value don’t contribute to the size of the value. The reason? It has been mentioned
above: when assigning/copying a value, only the direct part of the value is copied and the indirect
parts might be shared by multiple values, so it is not a good idea to let the same indirect parts
contribute to value sizes.
In the official standard Go compiler implementation, the sizes of all values of a specified type are
all the same. So the same value size is also called as the size of that type.
In the official standard Go compiler implementation, the sizes of all types of the same type kind are
the same, except struct and array type kinds. From memory allocation point of view,
• A struct values holds all its fields. In other words, a struct value is composed of all its fields.
At runtime, the fields of a struct are allocated on the same memory block as the struct itself.
Copying a struct value means copying all the fields of the struct value. So all the fields of a
struct value contribute to the size of the struct value.
• Like struct values, an array value holds all its elements. In other words, an array is composed
of all its elements. At runtime, the elements of an array are allocated on the same memory
block as the array itself. Copying an array value means copying all the elements of the array
value. So all elements of an array contribute to the size of the array value.
A pointer doesn’t hold the value being referenced (pointed) by the pointer. So the value being
referenced by the pointer value doesn’t contribute to the size of the pointer value (so nil pointers
and non-nil pointers have the same size). The two values may be often allocated on two different
memory blocks, so copying one of them will not copy the other.
Internally, a slice uses a pointer (on the direct part) to reference all its elements (on the indirect
part). The length and capacity information (two int values) of a slice is stored on the direct part
of the slice. From memory allocation point of view, it doesn’t hold its elements. Its elements are
allocated on another (indirect) value part other than its direct part. When assigning a slice value to
another slice value, none elements of the slice get copied. After assigning, the source slice and the
destination slice both reference (but not hold) the same elements. So the elements of a slice don’t
contribute to the size of a specified slice. This is why the sizes of all slice types are the same.
Like slice values, a map value just references all its entries and a buffered channel value just refer-
ences its elements being buffered.
In the official standard Go compiler implementation, map values, channel values and function val-
ues are all represented as pointers internally. This fact is important to understand some later intro-
duced optimizations made by the official standard Go compiler.
In the official standard Go compiler implementation,
• a string just references all its containing bytes (on the indirect part), though in logic, we can
also think a string holds all its containing bytes. The length information of a string is stored
on the direct part of the string as an int value.
• an interface value just references its dynamic value, though in logic, we can also think an
interface value holds its dynamic value.
10
