39
2.10
#10: Not being aware of the possible problems with type embedding
What should we conclude about type embedding? First, let’s note that it’s rarely a
necessity, and it means that whatever the use case, we can probably solve it as well with-
out type embedding. Type embedding is mainly used for convenience: in most cases,
to promote behaviors.
 If we decide to use type embedding, we need to keep two main constraints in mind:
It shouldn’t be used solely as some syntactic sugar to simplify accessing a field
(such as Foo.Baz() instead of Foo.Bar.Baz()). If this is the only rationale, let’s
not embed the inner type and use a field instead.
It shouldn’t promote data (fields) or a behavior (methods) we want to hide
from the outside: for example, if it allows clients to access a locking behavior
that should remain private to the struct.
NOTE
Some may also argue that using type embedding could lead to extra
efforts in terms of maintenance in the context of exported structs. Indeed,
embedding a type inside an exported struct means remaining cautious when
this type evolves. For example, if we add a new method to the inner type, we
should ensure it doesn’t break the latter constraint. Hence, to avoid this extra
effort, teams can also prevent type embedding in public structs.
Using type embedding consciously by keeping these constraints in mind can help avoid
boilerplate code with additional forwarding methods. However, let’s make sure we
don’t do it solely for cosmetics and not promote elements that should remain hidden.
 In the next section, we’ll discuss common patterns to deal with optional
configurations. 
With embedding, the receiver of Foo remains X. However, with subclassing, the
receiver of Foo becomes the subclass, Y. Embedding is about composition, not inher-
itance.
X
 Foo()
Foo() becomes a method of Y;
X remains the receiver of Foo().
Y
 X
 [Foo()]
Embedding
Subclassing
X
 Foo()
Extends
Foo() becomes a method of Y;
Y becomes the receiver of Foo().
Y
 Foo()
Promote
With embedding, the 
embedded type remains the 
receiver of a method. 
Conversely, with subclassing, 
the subclass becomes the 
receiver of a method.
