50
CHAPTER 2
Code and project organization
base. Also, bear in mind that naming a package after what it provides and not what it
contains can be an efficient way to increase its expressiveness.
 In the next section, we will discuss packages and package collisions. 
2.14
#14: Ignoring package name collisions
Package collisions occur when a variable name collides with an existing package
name, preventing the package from being reused. Let’s look at a concrete example
with a library exposing a Redis client:
package redis
type Client struct { ... }
func NewClient() *Client { ... }
func (c *Client) Get(key string) (string, error) { ... }
Now, let’s jump on the client side. Despite the package name, redis, it’s perfectly
valid in Go to also create a variable named redis:
redis := redis.NewClient()
v, err := redis.Get("foo")
Here, the redis variable name collides with the redis package name. Even though
this is allowed, it should be avoided. Indeed, throughout the scope of the redis vari-
able, the redis package won’t be accessible.
 Suppose that a qualifier references both a variable and a package name through-
out a function. In that case, it might be ambiguous for a code reader to know what a
qualifier refers to. What are the options to avoid such a collision? The first option is to
use a different variable name. For example,
redisClient := redis.NewClient()
v, err := redisClient.Get("foo")
This is probably the most straightforward approach. However, if for some reason we
prefer to keep our variable named redis, we can play with package imports. Using
package imports, we can use an alias to change the qualifier to reference the redis
package. For example,
import redisapi "mylib/redis"
// ...
redis := redisapi.NewClient()
v, err := redis.Get("foo")
Here, we used the redisapi import alias to reference the redis package so that we
can keep our variable name redis.
Calls NewClient from 
the redis package
Uses the redis 
variable
Creates an alias for 
the redis package
Accesses the redis package 
via the redisapi alias
