220
CHAPTER 9
Using the cloud
operations, scale, and updates to a service provider. Using APIs, you set up a database
and access it. This ladder case is an example of software as a service (SaaS), shown in
figure 9.2.
 SaaS comprises a wide range of software, from the building blocks to other applica-
tions to consumer applications. Using SaaS for application building blocks, such as
databases and storage, allows teams to focus on the activities that make their applica-
tions different. 
 SaaS examples are wide-ranging and include Salesforce, Microsoft Office 365, and
the payment processor Stripe.
9.1.2
Containers and cloud-native applications
When Docker, the container management software, came into the public eye, using
containers to run and distribute applications became popular. Containers are differ-
ent from virtual machines or traditional servers.
 Figure 9.3 compares virtual machines and containers. On the left is a system, going
all the way down to the hardware server, that runs virtual machines. On the right is a
separate system running containers. Each is running two applications as workloads,
with App A being scaled horizontally to have two instances, for a total of three work-
load instances.
 When virtual machines run, the hypervisor provides an environment for an operat-
ing system to run in that emulates hardware or uses special hardware for virtual
machines. Each virtual machine has a guest operating system with its own kernel. Inside
the operating system are all the applications, binaries, and libraries in the operating sys-
tem or set up by the users. Applications run in this environment. When two instances
Software as a service
(e.g., database as a service)
Platform as a service
Infrastructure as a service
(e.g., virtual machines)
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) is accessible 
to both build applications on and run
other services on.
Platform as a Service (PaaS) is usually run
on IaaS, is accessible to build applications
on, and it can run SaaS applications on it.
Software as a Service (SaaS) can be run in
IaaS or PaaS environments and is accessible
for other applications and people to use.
Figure 9.2
The layers of cloud services can sit on each other.
