223
TECHNIQUE 56
Working with multiple cloud providers
PROBLEM
Cloud service providers typically have their own APIs, even when they offer the same
or similar features. Writing an application to work with one API can lead to lock-in
with that API and that vendor.
SOLUTION
The solution has two parts. First, create an interface to describe your cloud interac-
tions. If you need to save a file or create a server instance, have a definition on the
interface for that. When you need to use these cloud features, be sure to use the
interface.
 Second, create an implementation of the interface for each cloud provider you’re
going to use. Switching cloud service providers becomes as simple as writing an imple-
mentation of an interface.
DISCUSSION
This is an old model that’s proven to be effective. Imagine if computers could work with
only a single printer manufacturer. Instead, operating systems have interfaces, and driv-
ers are written to connect the two. This same idea can apply to cloud providers.
 The first step is to define and use an interface for a piece of functionality rather
than to write the software to use a specific provider’s implementation. The following
listing provides an example of one designed to work with files.
type File interface {
     Load(string) (io.ReadCloser, error)
     Save(string, io.ReadSeeker) error
}
File handling is a useful case to look at because cloud providers offer different types of
file storage, operators have differing APIs, and file handling is a common operation.
 After an interface is defined, you need a first implementation. The easiest one,
which allows you to test and locally develop your application, is to use the local filesys-
tem as a store. This allows you to make sure the application is working before intro-
ducing network operations or a cloud provider. The following listing showcases an
implementation of the File interface that loads and saves from the local filesystem.
type LocalFile struct {
     Base string
}
func (l LocalFile) Load(path string) (io.ReadCloser, error) {
     p := filepath.Join(l.Base, path)
     return os.Open(p)
}
Listing 9.1
Interface for cloud functionality
Listing 9.2
Simple implementation of cloud file storage
An interface for working with files
Generic methods for working with files. 
The names contain no details of the 
underlying implementations.
A struct for the foundation of the 
implementation. The Base property 
stores the base path for file storage.
Opens a file stored 
locally or returns an 
error. os.File 
instances implement 
the io.ReadCloser 
interface, allowing a 
return from os.Open 
to work.
