227
TECHNIQUE 58
Gathering information on the host
 Logging is important to observe an application operating in its environment and
debug issues, but that’s just the beginning of operating in the cloud. Detecting the
environment, building in environment tolerance, monitoring the runtime, detecting
information when it’s needed, and numerous other characteristics affect how well it
runs and your ability to tune the application. Next you’ll look at applications running
in the cloud.
9.3
Running on cloud servers
When an application is being built to run in the cloud, at times you may know all the
details of the environment, but at other times information will be limited. Building
applications that are tolerant to unknown environments will aid in the detection and
handling of problems that could arise.
 At the same time, you may develop applications on one operating system and
architecture but need to operate them on another. For example, you could develop
an application on Windows or Mac OS X and operate it on Linux in production.
 In this section, you’ll explore how to avoid pitfalls that can come from assuming
too much about an environment.
9.3.1
Performing runtime detection
It’s usually a good idea to detect the environment at runtime rather than to assume
characteristics of it in your code. Because Go applications communicate with the ker-
nel, one thing you need to know is that if you’re on Linux, Windows, or another sys-
tem, details beyond the kernel that Go was compiled for can be detected at runtime.
This allows a Go application to run on Red Hat Linux or Ubuntu. Or a Go application
can tell you if a dependency is missing, which makes troubleshooting much easier.
TECHNIQUE 58
Gathering information on the host
Cloud applications can run in multiple environments such as development, testing,
and production environments. They can scale horizontally, with the potential to have
many instances dynamically scheduled. And they can run in multiple data centers at
the same time. Being run in this manner makes it difficult to assume information
about the environment or pass in all the details with application configuration.
 Instead of knowing through configuration, or assuming host environment details,
it’s possible to detect information about the environment.
PROBLEM
How can information about a host be detected within a Go application?
SOLUTION
The os package enables you to get information about the underlying system. Informa-
tion from the os package can be combined with information detected through other
packages, such as net, or from calls to external applications.
