221
What is cloud computing?
of an application run in parallel (which is how horizontal scaling works), the entire
guest operating system, applications, libraries, and your application are replicated.
 Using virtual machines comes with certain architectural elements worth noting:
When a virtual machine starts up, the kernel and guest operating system need
time to boot up. This takes time because computers take time to boot up.
Hypervisors and modern hardware can enforce a separation between each vir-
tual machine.
Virtual machines provide an encapsulated server with resources being assigned
to it. Those resources may be used by that machine or held for that machine.
Containers operate on a different model. The host server, whether it’s a physical
server or virtual machine, runs a container manager. Each container runs in the host
operating system. When using the host kernel, its startup time is almost instantaneous.
Containers share the kernel, and hardware drivers and the operating system enforce a
separation between the containers. The binaries and libraries used, commonly associ-
ated with the operating system, can be entirely separate. For example, in figure 9.3,
App A could be using the Debian binaries and libraries, and App B could be running
on those from CentOS. The applications running in those containers would see their
environment as Debian or CentOS.
 Cloud-native applications is a term that tends to be used alongside containers. Cloud-
native applications take advantage of the programmatic nature of the cloud to scale
with additional instances on demand, remediate failures so many problems in the sys-
tems are never experienced by end users, tie together microservices to build larger
applications, and more.  Containers, with their capability to start almost instantly
while being more densely placed on the underlying servers than virtual machines,
provide an ideal environment for scaling, remediation, and microservices.
DEFINITION
Remediation is the automatic correction of problems in running
applications. Microservices are small, independent processes that communicate
with other small processes over defined APIs. Microservices are used together
to create larger applications. Microservices are covered in more detail in
chapter 10.
App B
App B
App A1
App A2
App A2
App A1
bins/libs
bins/libs
bins/libs
Guest OS
Guest OS
Guest OS
Hypervisor
Host OS
Server
bins/libs
bins/libs
Host OS
Server
Container manager
Virtual machine
Container
Figure 9.3
Comparing containers and virtual machines
