225
TECHNIQUE 57
Cleanly handling cloud provider errors
The fileStore function retrieves an object implementing the File interface from
listing 9.1. That could be an implementation connected to a cloud provider such as
Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud, or Microsoft Azure. A variety of types of cloud
file storage are available, including object storage, block storage, and file storage. The
implementation could be connected to any of these. Although the implementation
can vary, where it’s used isn’t tied to any one implementation.
 The file store to use can be chosen by configuration, which was covered in chapter
2. In the configuration, the details of the type and any credentials can be stored. The
credentials are important because development and testing should happen by using
different account details from production.
 In this example, the following function uses the local filesystem to store and
retrieve files. In an application, the path will likely be a specific location:
func fileStore() (File, error) {
     return &LocalFile{Base: "."}, nil
}
This same concept applies to every interaction with a cloud provider, whether it’s add-
ing compute resourcing (for example, creating virtual machines), adding users to an
SaaS customer relationship management (CRM) system, or anything else. 
9.2.2
Dealing with divergent errors
Handling errors is just as important as handling successful operations when interact-
ing with different cloud providers. Part of what has made the internet and those
known for using the cloud successful is handling errors well.
TECHNIQUE 57
Cleanly handling cloud provider errors
In technique 56, errors from the Load and Save methods were bubbled up to the code
that called them. In practice, details from the errors saving to the local filesystem or
any cloud provider, which are different in each implementation, were bubbled up to
the application code.
 If the application code that calls methods such as Load and Save is going to display
errors to end users or attempt to detect meaning from the errors in order to act on
them, you can quickly run into problems when working with multiple cloud providers.
Each cloud provider, SDK, or implementation can have different errors. Instead of
having a clean interface, such as the File interface in listing 9.1, the application code
needs to know details about the implementations errors.
PROBLEM
How can application code handle interchangeable implementations of an interface
while displaying or acting on errors returned by methods in the interface?
SOLUTION
Along with the methods on an interface, define and export errors. Instead of return-
ing implementation-specific errors, return package errors.
