1 Introducing Go
This chapter covers
Solving modern computing challenges with Go
Using the Go tools
Computers have evolved, and programming languages have needed to evolve
with them. While processor speed continues to increase, the demands of
modern computing are such that this alone has not been enough to keep up
with the pace of technology, and many of the recent advances in CPU
manufacturing have focused on ways of doing work in parallel. The mobile
devices in our pockets might have more CPU cores than the high-end laptops
we used just a few years ago, and high-powered servers now have 64, 128, or
even more cores, yet programming languages have struggled to enable
effective use of these advances.
In part, this is because programming languages had little cause to embrace
parallelism during much of their evolution in the face of ever-increasing
processing speed. The problem space of concurrent programming is much
larger, with exponentially more interactions that can occur between parts of
otherwise simple code, and so it was easier to defer the problem. Now that
the needs are greater, modern programming languages need built in
abstractions around concurrency, freeing the programmer to focus less on
minutiae of coordinating concurrency, and more on the important work of
solving problems.
The business of writing software itself has changed as well. Most programs
are no longer written by a single developer, but by teams of people, often
spread across several time zones and work schedules. Large projects are often
broken up into units worked on in parallel by one or more developers who
integrate their work into a larger whole, or provide reusable libraries that can
be deployed across an entire suite of applications.
Recent decades have also seen the rise in popularity of the open source
software movement, allowing developers across the spectrum of technology
to share in innovation, quality and collective oversight. Today’s programmers
and companies believe more than ever in the power of open source software,
and the desire to participate in this movement only continues to grow.
Go has sought to meet all of these needs. As a language, it provides
developers with refined abstractions around concurrency and a powerful
runtime to make efficient use of it with the resources at hand. As a
programming environment, it provides robust tooling to make inspection,
observation, dependency resolution and code sharing sane and easy. As an
enterprise language, it has adopted a simple, opinionated syntax and coding
standards as first principles to enable efficient collaboraction across large
teams. Finally, the project has embraced the open source ethos, with all work
in the open for all to see, while also integrating with public open source
repositories and revision control systems such as Github.
In this book, you will explore these features and gain a sense of the many
decisions that have shaped the language, so that you can undersdand not only
how the language works, but a bit more about why it works the way it does.
Go was not developed in isolation, but as a response to the perceived deficits
in programming environments that existed at the time of its creation. Its
design is practical, and informed by many collective decades of programming
experience, in a variety of environments and languages.
Much of what makes Go special is how it is deliberately different to that
which came before it, and so, while the reader is not expected to have
"decades" of programming experience, an intermediate-level developer with
experience in at least one or two other languages will get the most from this
text, and is our target audience.
The decision to pick up a new programming language is an inportant one, so
the goal of this book is to help developers and other technical roles get a feel
for what working in Go is like, and what its strenghts are, so you can make a
more informed decision about whether or not to adopt Go into your tech
stack. To this end, we won’t dwell too much on introductory concepts,
though we may revisit them from time to time where it makes sense to show
how Go might do things differently to what you’re used to.
What we will cover are as many of the practical aspects of using this
language as a daily driver as we can, including syntax, concurrency
primitives, and testing. For those of you with some prior experience in Go,
we will try to hit the most important changes to the language since the first
edition, such as modules, fuzzing, and the most recent major language
addition: generic programming with type parameters.
We hope that by the time you’ve finished reading, you’ll be just as hooked as
we are, and on your way to writing better, faster, more reliable software!
The source code for the examples in the book is available at
https://github.com/flowchartsman/go-in-action
1.1 Solving modern programming challenges with
Go
Developers today often have to make an uncomfortable choice between rapid
development and performance when choosing a language for their projects.
Languages like C and C++ offer fast execution, whereas languages like Ruby
and Python offer rapid development. The Go designers went to great lengths
to create a language that bridges these competing worlds and offers a high-
performance language with features that make development fast, without
unnecessary complexity.
As you explore Go, you’ll find well-planned features and a concise syntax.
As a language, Go is defined not only by what it includes, but by what it
doesn’t include. Go has few keywords to memorize and a type system which
provides expressiveness, composition and code reuse without all of the
cognitive overhead of a rigidly object-oriented paradigm. If you’ve been at
the mercy of long compilation times, you will be refreshed to use a compiler
that’s so fast, sometimes you’ll forget it’s running. Because of Go’s built-in
concurrency features, your software will scale to use the resources available
without forcing you to use special threading libraries. The Go runtime also
has a highly-optimized, concurrent garbage collector, freeing you from the
tedious and error-prone process of manual memory management. Let’s look
quickly at these key features.
1.1.1 Development speed
Compiling a large application in C or C++ takes more time than getting a cup
of coffee. Figure 1.1 shows an XKCD classic excuse for messing around in
the office.
Figure 1.1. Working hard? (via XKCD)
As a Go developer, you will need to find another excuse if you want to slack
off. Go offers lightning-quick compiles by using a smart compiler and
simplified dependency resolution algorithms, made reproducible and explicit
by the recent addition of the Go Modules ecosystem. When you build a Go
program, the compiler only needs to look at the libraries that you directly
need, rather than traversing all the libraries that are included in the entire
dependency chain like Java, C, and C++. Consequently, many Go
applications compile in under a second. The entire Go source tree compiles in
under 20 seconds on modern hardware.
This focus on quick compilation helps close the productivity gap with
dynamic languages, which have traditionally enjoyed an advantage in
productivity by eliminating the expensive compilation and linking steps. By
allowing you to minimize the time between writing your code and running it,
Go provides much of the speed of writing dynamic languages.
1.1.2 Type Safety
If you’ve ever worked in a dynamic language before, you have likely seen an
error message that looks something like this:
Figure 1.2. A Common Dynamic Typing Exception
If you’re lucky, you ran into it during testing, however many of us have also
been surprised and confused by a message very much like this one in our logs
after something goes wrong.
Type errors like this occur when a weakly-typed variable is assigned a value
that is incompabible with its usage elsewhere in the program. They can be
notoriously difficult to debug, since they often sneak in as edge cases that
crop up rarely or in unexpected circumstances, making it unclear where a
problematic value came from. The addition of user input to the mix only
serves to complicate this further, since you have less control over the values
that are flowing through your program.
With a strongly-typed language like Go, every value has a type assigned to it
at its creation that is tracked by the compiler, making this sort of bug
impossible. This is appealing to developers, and for this reason we have seen
a push for at least some level of type safety in popular dynamic languages.
Typscript, for example, brings type safety to Javascript by converting (or
"transpiling") strongly-typed Typescript code into the weakly-typed
Javascript code that actually runs in the browser, while Python’s type hinting
system has been growing in popularity. Both approaches have their tradeoffs,
of course; transpiled languages can provide strong guarantees, but the
transpilation steps mean that the code you write isn’t the code that actually
runs, and can come with some performance hit, while type hints serve
primarily to inform, and are not enforced natively without special extensions.
Go, on the other hand, is strongly-typed by design, and simply won’t let you
use a value in an inconsistent way:
Listing 1.1. Attempting To Assign Values Of Different Types
var number int
var str string
number = 1
str = "one"
number = str
// Error: cannot use str (variable of type string) as type int in assignment
This code will not cause an error when it runs, becuse it cannot be run in the
first place—it simply won’t build at all.
1.1.3 Concurrency
As we approach the limits of how small we can make transistors, chip
manufacturers have been turning to multi-core processors and parallel
computing techniques to speed up execution time. New techniques and novel
architectures are constantly being developed to make the most of multi-
threaded computing, however developments in programming languages have
lagged behind somewhat.
In part, this is due to the inherent difficulty in programming for a multi-
threaded environment using languages that were not designed with this in
mind. Special care needs to be taken to synchronize access to shared memory
to prevent simultaneous writes, which which can corrupt data. Doing this
correctly can be difficult, and doing it efficiently is even more so.
Another difficulty is that it’s not enough to just run multiple things at once,
you also need to pay attention to when tasks are blocked, or waiting, on
something else, such as data from a file or a network connection. I/O can be
extraordinarily slow compared to code, since it depends on things like storage
hardware or packets coming over the network, each of which can be orders of
magnitude slower than the code running on the processor. If every task
stopped to wait for every I/O operation, your profgram would spend most of
its time waiting or even grind to a halt when it could be doing other things!
The business of tracking all of these moving pieces is called "scheduling",
and it’s also tricky to get right.
Go addresses these problems by integrating concurrency directly into the
language runtime itself, making all Go programs concurrent by default.[1]
This allows you to concentrate on writing code that is easy to read and reason
about without managing all of these complexities yourself. In fact, thanks to
the concurrency features built into the standard library, a lot of the time you
won’t even have to write a single line of concurrent code yourself! A great
example of this is the net/http package, which allows you to write things
like web APIs that can handle thousands of simultaneous requests with ease.
Goroutines
For those times when you need to write your own concurrent code, Go has a
couple of killer features that help cut down on a lot of the headache of
managing concurrency yourself: goroutines and channels.
Goroutines are the name given to functions run with the go keyword, which
causes them to run concurrently with the rest of the code.
Listing 1.2. Running A Function As A Goroutine
func makeMeConcurrent() {
// Do some concurrent work...
}
func main() {
go makeMeConcurrent()
// Continue with the main goroutine...
}
Goroutines are managed by the Go runtime, and you can think of them as a
bit like threads, only they are much more lightweight, and less expensive to
create. In fact, many Goroutines can share a single OS thread, and can be
started and stopped as needed to allow other goroutines to run.
Figure 1.3. Many Goroutines Execute On a Single OS Thread
Because they are so cheap, you don’t need to worry about using them
whenever you need them, and it is not uncommon for a single Go program to
have many hundreds or even thousands of them active at one time.
If you want to execute some code that might be slow while you move on to
accomplish other things, a goroutine is the perfect tool for the job. Creating
one is as easy as calling a function with the go keyword. Here’s a quick
example:
Listing 1.3. Doing Something Slow
func DoSomethingSlow() {
fmt.Println("SLOW: maybe I'm doing network stuff?")
time.Sleep(1 * time.Second)
fmt.Println("SLOW: Okay, finally finished!")
}
func main() {
fmt.Println("Starting the main task...")
// Create a goroutine to do something slow.
go DoSomethingSlow()
fmt.Println("Resuming the main task...")
time.Sleep(500 * time.Millisecond)
fmt.Println("Finished the main task!")
time.Sleep(1 * time.Second)
}
Listing 1.4. Running A Slow Function Concurrently
Doing the main task...
Resuming the main task...
SLOW: maybe I'm doing network stuff?
Finished the main task!
SLOW: Okay, finally finished!
Calling DoSomethingSlow function with the go keyword is all you need to run
the slow code while the rest of the main function does other work. This often
results in greater thoroughput and thus better performance for your users.
You will learn more about this in Chapter 8
Channels
For synchronization and shared data, Go provides _channel_s, which are
typed, synchronizd buffers and combine access and locking with a single
operation.
You can think of channels as a synchronized message box, where one or
more "senders" place data that’s ready to be shared, and one or more
"receivers" wait to take custody of it. Channels can be "buffered", meaning
they can hold more than one message in the order they were sent, or
"unbuffered", meaning they can hold only one message at a time, but the
underlying mechanisms are the same.
In the case of an unbuffered channel (or a buffered channel which is full) the
sending goroutine will wait until the receiving goroutine has received the
message or the receiving goroutine will wait until the message is sent,
depending on who accesses the channel first. You can see an example of this
flow in figure 1.3, where a channel is used to send data between two running
goroutines. Imagine an application where many different processes need to
know about or modify data sequentially. Using goroutines and channels, you
can model this process safely.
Figure 1.4. Channels Pass Data Between Goroutines
Figure 1.3 shows two goroutines and a shared channel. The first goroutine
passes a data value through the channel to the second goroutine, which
receives a copy of it. This exchange is synchronized, so both goroutines
know the exchange took place, and can do other work before exchanging data
again. After the second goroutine performs its tasks with the data, it then
sends the data back to the first, waiting for acknowledgement. If the first
goroutine is already ready to receive, the exchange will take place
immediately, otherwise the second goroutine will wait patiently until the data
is exchanged. This process requires no other locks or synchronization
mechanisms beyond the send and receive operations themselves. In code, that
might look something like this, with the second goroutine sending the final
message back to main on another channel.
Listing 1.5. Exchanging Data With A Channel
func main() {
channel := make(chan string)
output := make(chan string)
go func() {
// First goroutine waits for a message.
s := <-channel
s = s + "World!"
output <- s
}()
go func(){
// Second goroutine sends the initial message.
s := "Hello, "
channel <- s
}()
// Main goroutine waits for the final output.
finalString := <- output
fmt.Println("This string was built concurrently:", finalString)
}
Listing 1.6. The Final Result On The output Channel
This string was built concurrently: Hello, World!
This is a simple and powerful abstraction, and, because the data is copied, it
is generally a much safer way to share data between concurrent processes.
Note
Special care must be taken if the data contains pointers, since only the pointer
itself is copied (not the underlying data). This will be covered more in
Chapter 8, but a good rule of thumb to remember for now is that when you
pass data on a channel, you should be done with it.
1.1.4 Go’s Type System
Go provides a flexible type system that is similar to that of object-oriented
langauges such as C++ in that it defines new types out of existing types, but
where it differs is that it has no concept of a class hierarchy. There are no
classes or inheritance in Go. Instead, Go types are composed of simpler types,
which allows you, the programmer, to focus on your data first, rather than
requiring you to come up with a class hierarchy first:
Figure 1.5. Inheritance Vs. Composition
Types Are Simple
Go types are made up of basic types such as int or string compoised together
in struct types, which will be familiar to you if you have dealt with other C-
like languages:
Listing 1.7. A Go Struct
type Person struct {
FirstName string
LastName string
Age int
}
Types can have methods, which help to define their behavior:
Listing 1.8. A Go Struct And Method
type Person struct {
FirstName string
LastName string
Age int
}
func (p Person) Name() string {
return p.FirstName + " " + p.LastName
}
func (p Person) Describe() string {
return fmt.Sprintf("%s is %d years old", p.Name(), p.Age)
}
func main(){
andy := Person{
FirstName: "Andy",
LastName: "Walker",
Age: 43,
}
fmt.Println(andy.Describe())
}
Listing 1.9. Output Of Calling The Describe() Method
Andy Walker is 43 years old.
Go encourages simple types that define their own behavior, rather than
inheriting it from somewhere else.
Interfaces Unify Behavior
Interfaces, in turn, allow related types to be used interchangably, provided
they have the same behavior (as defined by their methors).[2] For example,
you could make an interface, Describer, which represents anything that has a
description.
Listing 1.10. An Interface And A Function That Uses It
type Describer interface {
Describe() string
}
func PrintDescription(d Describer) {
fmt.Println(d.Describe())
}
type Person struct {
FirstName string
LastName string
Age int
}
func (p Person) Name() string {
return p.FirstName + " " + p.LastName
}
func (p Person) Describe() string {
return fmt.Sprintf("%s is a %d year-old human", p.Name(), p.Age)
}
type Cat struct {
Name string
Attitude string
Color string
}
func (c Cat) Describe() string {
return fmt.Sprintf("%s is a %s cat (%s)", c.Name, c.Color, c.Attitude)
}
func main() {
andy := Person{
FirstName: "Andy",
LastName: "Walker",
Age: 43,
}
barry := Cat{
Name: "Barry",
Attitude: "the best lil' duder",
Color: "black and white",
}
benny := Cat{
Name: "Benny",
Attitude: "kind of a jerk",
Color: "orange",
}
PrintDescription(andy)
PrintDescription(barry)
PrintDescription(benny)
}
Listing 1.11. Output Of Calling PrintDescription On Values Of Different Types
Andy Walker is a 43 year-old human
Barry is a black and white cat (the best lil' duder)
Benny is a orange cat (kind of a jerk)
It’s super easy to use interfaces in Go, since any type will "just work" as a n
interface value, provided it matches the types. There’s no need to explicitly
declare that a particular class implemented the Describer interface, the
compiler can figure that out all on its own! As long as your type implements
an interface, it’s good to go.
Interfaces are a powerful tool, and you will learn more about them in
Chapter 5, which takes a deeper dive on the type system.
Generics Pick Up Where Interfaces Leave Off
Finally, as one of the more recent changes to the language, Go supports
generic programming using type parameters, allowing you even greater
flexibility in designing generic methods and data structures that work with a
variety of different types directly:
Listing 1.12. Generic Sums
func SumNumbers[N int | float64](numberSlice ...N) N {
var total N
for i := range numberSlice {
total += numberSlice[i]
}
return total
}
func main() {
fmt.Println(SumNumbers(1, 2, 3))
fmt.Println(SumNumbers(1.1, 2.2, 3.3))
}
//output:
// 6
// 6.6
This is just the tip of this iceberg! Generics are among the newest features to
the Go language, and entire chapter of this book is dedicated to helping you
get the most of them.
1.1.5 Garbage Collection
Like many of its peers, Go is a garbage-collected language, which means that
you do not need to manage allocation of memory, since the runtime will take
care of that for you.
Like the rest of the language, Go’s memory managent is fully-concurrent,
meaning it does not need to stop the entire program periodically to clean up
memory, which is often a side-effect of this feature in languages that provide
it.
Instead, Go’s automatic memory management is highly optimized for
intensive workloads common to the sorts of applications where it shines, and
the performance and efficacy of Go memory management improves with
each new release. Sub-millisecond pauses are now the norm, and soft
memory limits and profile-guided optimizations can help ensure that your
application is performing as well as it can, with in the bounds of its situation.
[1] "Runtime" here refers to the code that is part of every compiled Go
program. This is all of the low-level stuff for managing memory and
concurrency, such as the garbage collector.
[2] This is known as polymorphism, specifically runtime polymorphism
through structural typing for you compsci nerds.
1.2 Summary
Go is a modern general-purpose language with powerful built-in
concurrency features.
Go is fast, and compiles quickly, leading to reduced development
overhead.
Go has a simple, easy-to-use type system with implicit interface
implementation and generic programming features.
Go is memory-safe and garbage collected, freeing the programmer from
both the tedium and the worry of manual memory management.
Hopefully by this point you’re as sold on Go as we were when we released
the first edition of Go In Action, hot on the heels of Go Version 1.5. Now
here we are nearly 8 years and 14 release cycles later, and there is more to be
excited about than ever! Go has grown by leaps and bounds in popularity and
features, including Generics, which are the largest addition to the language to
date! It’s never been a better time to be a Gopher, and we are happy to
welcome you into the fold. Let’s Go!
