251
TECHNIQUE 65
Communicating over RPC with protocol buffers
When the function this code is in ends, the cancel() function is called. This tells the
context to cancel the work. This is communicated to the other service, even when
hosted on an entirely different system. On the server, this cancellation can be seen
through a channel, which is how it’s implemented in the client as well. For example,
in an RPC function such as Say, there could be the following:
select {
case <-ctx.Done():
     return nil, ctx.Err()
}
When a message is sent over the channel available from Done(), which happens when
the cancel() function is called, it will be received here. The ctx.Err() function is
aware of the type of cancelation that was set up. In this case, the error sent back will
note that the work was canceled.
 Contexts are a powerful tool for passing information over the course of a remote
call—especially when the remote call will take a good amount of time.
 When the client and server are using HTTP/2, as they are by default when both
ends are using gRPC, the communications use the connection reuse and multiplexing
described earlier in the chapter. This enables a fast, modern transport layer for trans-
ferring the protocol buffer binary messages.
 The advantages and disadvantages of RPC utilizing gRPC should be weighed before
using them. The advantages include the following:
Using protocol buffers, the payload size is smaller and faster to marshal or
unmarshal than JSON or XML.
The context allows for canceling, communicating timeouts or due dates, and
other relevant information over the course of a remote call.
The interaction is with a called procedure rather than a message that’s passed
elsewhere.
Semantics of the transport methodology—for example, HTTP verbs—don’t
limit the communications over RPC.
The disadvantages include the following:
The transport payload isn’t human-readable as JSON or XML can be.
Applications need to know the interface and details of the of the RPC calls.
Knowing the semantics of the message isn’t enough.
Integration is deeper than a message, such as you’d have with REST, because a
remote procedure is being called. Exposing remote procedure access to
untrusted clients may not be ideal and should be handled with care for security.
In general, RPCs can be a good alternative for interactions between microservices you
control that are part of a larger service. They can provide fast, efficient communica-
tion and will even work across multiple programming languages. RPCs shouldn’t typi-
cally be exposed to clients outside your control, such as a public API. The information
