181
Creating Go web services
  jsonFile, err := os.Create("post.json")    
  if err != nil {
    fmt.Println("Error creating JSON file:", err)
    return
  }
  encoder := json.NewEncoder(jsonFile)  
  err = encoder.Encode(&post)    
  if err != nil {
    fmt.Println("Error encoding JSON to file:", err)
    return
  }
}
As before, you create a JSON file to store the JSON that’s generated. You use this file to
create an encoder using the NewEncoder function. Then you call the Encode method
on the encoder and pass it a reference to the post struct. This will extract the data
from the struct and create JSON data, which is then written to the writer you passed in
earlier.
 This wraps up the sections on parsing and creating XML and JSON. Going through
these sections seems like plodding through similar patterns, but it provides you with
the grounding you need for the next section, where you’ll create a Go web service.
7.6
Creating Go web services
Creating a Go web service is relatively pain-free. If you’ve arrived here after going
through the earlier chapters and the earlier sections in this chapter, the rest should
just click and lightbulbs should start flickering on.
 You’re going to build a simple REST-based web service that allows you to create,
retrieve, update, and retrieve forum posts. Another way of looking at it is you’re wrap-
ping a web service interface over the CRUD functions you built in chapter 6. You’ll be
using JSON as the data transport format. This simple web service will be reused to
explain other concepts in the following chapters.
 First, let’s look at the database operations that you’ll need. Essentially you’re going
to reuse—but simplify—the code from section 6.4. The code you need is placed in a
file named data.go, shown in the following listing, with the package name main. The
code isolates what you need to do with the database.
package main
import (
  "database/sql"
  _ "github.com/lib/pq"
)
var Db *sql.DB
func init() {                                            
Listing 7.14
Accessing the database with data.go
Creates JSON file 
to store data
Creates encoder
with JSON file
Encodes
struct
into file
Connects to the Db
