171
Parsing and creating XML with Go
 Once you have the decoder, use the Token method to get the next token in the
XML stream. A token in this context is an interface that represents an XML element.
What you want to do is to continually take tokens from the decoder until you run out.
So let’s wrap the action of taking tokens from the decoder in an infinite for loop that
breaks only when you run out of tokens. When that happens, err will not be nil.
Instead it will contain the io.EOF struct, signifying that it ran out of data from the file
(or data stream).
 As you’re taking the tokens from the decoder, you’ll inspect them and check
whether they’re StartElements. A StartElement represents the start tag of an XML ele-
ment. If the token is a StartElement, check if it’s a comment XML element. If it is, you
can decode the entire token into a Comment struct and get the same results as before.
 Decoding the XML file manually takes more effort and isn’t worth it if it’s a small
XML file. But if you get XML streamed to you, or if it’s a very large XML file, it’s the
only way of extracting data from the XML.
 A final note before we discuss creating XML: the rules described in this section are
only a portion of the list. For details on all the rules, refer to the xml library documen-
tation, or better yet, read the source xml library source code.
7.4.2
Creating XML
The previous section on parsing XML was a lengthy one. Fortunately, most of what you
learned there is directly applicable to this section. Creating XML is the reverse of pars-
ing XML. Where you unmarshal XML into Go structs, you now marshal Go structs into
XML. Similarly, where you decode XML into Go structs, you now encode Go structs
into XML, shown in figure 7.5.
 Let’s start with marshaling. The code in the file xml.go, shown in listing 7.7, will
generate an XML file named post.xml.
package main
import (
  "encoding/xml"
  "fmt"
  "io/ioutil"
)
type Post struct {
  XMLName xml.Name `xml:"post"`
  Id      string   `xml:"id,attr"`
Listing 7.7
Using the Marshal function to generate an XML file
Marshal structs
into XML data
Create structs
and populate
with data
Figure 7.5
Create XML with Go by creating 
structs and marshaling them into XML
