Welcome
Thanks for purchasing the MEAP for Go In Action, Second Edition! Go has
come a long way since the first edition was published back in 2015, and it has
never been a better time to be a Go programmer. Since Go In Action was
published, Go has seen widespread adoption in the cloud, establishing itself
as one of the most popular languages for backend software. Meanwhile, the
ecosystem has continued to improve, with the addition of thousands of new
libraries, tens of thousands of new developers and new features such as
context, built-in fuzzing and, of course, the much-awaited generic
programming provided by type parameters.
This new edition is more than just a couple new chapters to catch up the
material. With the benefit of nearly 8 years of working with Go, we thought
we would take the opportunity to not only introduce new language elements,
but also to revisit the old material with the goal of laying better foundations
for the new Go programmer, including answering some of the most important
questions new users have, such as how to structure your Go projects and how
to get the most out of Go's error handling paradigm. We have tried to keep
the best practices that have evolved in the language since the last edition in
mind, and have tried to make sure that potentially tricky concepts are
explained thoroughly and intuitively, so that you can get the most out of
starting your Go journey with us!
You don't need to know Go to read this book, however a background in
another programming language will help you get the most out of it. This will
also help you get a better idea of what makes Go special, and how it does
things differently, and why.
We believe learning is done best by doing, and so we have tried to keep the
dry, reference-style material to a minimum, with a greater focus on code
examples, so that you can see how the concepts map to real Go, and almost
every single line of code you see will be available in the book repository,
ready for you to download, run and modify as you like.