software movement, allowing developers across the spectrum of technology
to share in innovation, quality and collective oversight. Today’s programmers
and companies believe more than ever in the power of open source software,
and the desire to participate in this movement only continues to grow.
Go has sought to meet all of these needs. As a language, it provides
developers with refined abstractions around concurrency and a powerful
runtime to make efficient use of it with the resources at hand. As a
programming environment, it provides robust tooling to make inspection,
observation, dependency resolution and code sharing sane and easy. As an
enterprise language, it has adopted a simple, opinionated syntax and coding
standards as first principles to enable efficient collaboraction across large
teams. Finally, the project has embraced the open source ethos, with all work
in the open for all to see, while also integrating with public open source
repositories and revision control systems such as Github.
In this book, you will explore these features and gain a sense of the many
decisions that have shaped the language, so that you can undersdand not only
how the language works, but a bit more about why it works the way it does.
Go was not developed in isolation, but as a response to the perceived deficits
in programming environments that existed at the time of its creation. Its
design is practical, and informed by many collective decades of programming
experience, in a variety of environments and languages.
Much of what makes Go special is how it is deliberately different to that
which came before it, and so, while the reader is not expected to have
"decades" of programming experience, an intermediate-level developer with
experience in at least one or two other languages will get the most from this
text, and is our target audience.
The decision to pick up a new programming language is an inportant one, so
the goal of this book is to help developers and other technical roles get a feel
for what working in Go is like, and what its strenghts are, so you can make a
more informed decision about whether or not to adopt Go into your tech
stack. To this end, we won’t dwell too much on introductory concepts,
though we may revisit them from time to time where it makes sense to show
how Go might do things differently to what you’re used to.