course, but then this chapter would be very short and you would leave very
poor book reviews, and Manning would be very angry with us, so instead
let’s say you’ve decided that wc is too old and crusty for your refined tastes
and you’re going to rewrite it in Go![3]
[3] "11 stars!", "A++", "Changed my life, would buy this book for my
family!", "Who says print media is dead?" These are just a few of the
glowing reviews you could post, if you were so inclined.
2.2 What You Need First
You are encouraged to follow along with the code in this book to get the most
out of it and get used to what it is like to write Go in an actual development
environment. While you can do this with just a Go installation and your
operating system’s built-in terminal, you’ll have a better experience with an
IDE or an alternative terminal emulator. We’ll discuss these in detail below,
but you can also visit the book’s website at https://goinaction.github.io where
we keep an up-to-date list of recommended software and quick-start
instructions for getting set up!
2.2.1 A Code Editor
You can use any editor you like to write Go, so use whatever is comfortable
to you. If you’re unsure where to start, the Go Wiki provides several popular
suggestions, just check out the page above or head over to
https://go.dev/doc/editors and look for links to the Wiki on IDEs and editor
plugins.
The landscape of code editors is constantly shifting, so this book does not
concentrate on any particular coding environment. Different editors have
different levels of Go support, some of which might require extensions or
plugins for things like autocompletion and documentation, so make sure you
check the documentation for your particular editor if you don’t find it in the
link above and consider installing any support packages you need. Some
editors might even install Go for you! If that’s the case, just make sure you
still have access to the Go tools themselves from the command line, since this
book will be using those pretty regularly. If in doubt, you’re probably safe to