There’s not a lot to see here yet, since this is a brand new project with no
external dependencies (or code!). The first line is called the module directive,
and it simply indicates that the name of this module is gobook/wordcount.
The last line is called the go directive, and it says that this software was
developed using Go version 1.18.
Now you have a shiny new module just brimming with possibilities for the
future! Time to write some actual code!
GOROOT In Days Of Yore
History lesson: in the early days of Go, you needed to have a GOPATH
environment variable that pointed to a directory where all of your source and
dependencies lived. This directory needed a src subdirectory for all of your
source, a bin subdirectory for tools and such that you built, and a pkg
subdirectory for cached library objects. This was fine and all, but all of your
code ended up in one place, which was a little weird. Oh, and it didn’t really
handle versioning very well, so we had to make sites like gopkg.in to keep
versions separate, otherwise you needed a bunch of separate GOPATHs
which would each have their own copies of dependencies. Oh yeah, and also
you had to check dependencies in sometimes to make sure they didn’t get
deleted from public repos or to make sure they didn’t get updated on you. So,
yeah, it was just a whole thing, and there were a bunch of third-party tools
like gb and glide and dep that stepped up to fill in the gaps.
Eventually, however, we got Go Modules which does versioning and lets you
build a project wherever, so long as you do a go mod init first, More
importantly, we also got the Go package and checksum databases which act
as public mirrors for most Go code checked in to the major public
repositories, making it very unlikely that your dependencies will just
disappear on you.
2.4 The First Iteration: Counting Spaces
Spaces are the natural division between words, so as a first pass, you’ll write
a simple counter for spaces in a string. This will serve as the test case for the
rest of the chapter, gaining improvements as you go.