you a piece at a time. Using a package like this is handy, since it allows you
to focus on the important parts of the task at hand, without requiring you to
handle all of the implementation details yourself. In this case, it means you
only have to worry about calling a couple of methods to get the latest bit of
text and check for errors, without needing to write a bunch of extra code.
2.8.1 Using go doc To Learn More About Types
When you’re looking to learn more about a package and its types, you can
use go doc to get an overview by passing it the package and the type name:
Listing 2.39. Output Of go doc bufio Scanner
type Scanner struct {
// Has unexported fields.
}
Scanner provides a convenient interface for reading data such as a file
of newline-delimited lines of text. Successive calls to the Scan method
will step through the 'tokens' of a file, skipping the bytes between the
tokens. The specification of a token is defined by a split function of
type SplitFunc; the default split function breaks the input into lines
with line termination stripped. Split functions are defined in this
package for scanning a file into lines, bytes, UTF-8-encoded runes, and
space-delimited words. The client may instead provide a custom split
function.
Scanning stops unrecoverably at EOF, the first I/O error, or a token too
large to fit in the buffer. When a scan stops, the reader may have
advanced arbitrarily far past the last token. Programs that need more
control over error handling or large tokens, or must run sequential
scans on a reader, should use bufio.Reader instead.
func NewScanner(r io.Reader) *Scanner
func (s *Scanner) Buffer(buf []byte, max int)
func (s *Scanner) Bytes() []byte
func (s *Scanner) Err() error
func (s *Scanner) Scan() bool
func (s *Scanner) Split(split SplitFunc)
func (s *Scanner) Text() string
This is a typical document listing for a package type, and a good example of
how go doc presents documentation at a higher level. The first thing you’ll
see is the definition of the type itself, as well as any fields it might export