inside of the curly braces. In this case, Scanner doesn’t expose any fields, so
all you see is a comment that it contains unexported fields, just in case you
care about that sort of thing.
After the type definition, go doc will add the type documentation, which is
usally a description of the type and its purpose, often with info about how it
works. This can be more or less detailed, depending on the package, but
standard library packages like this one tend to be fairly detailed to give you
as much information as possible so that you don’t miss anything that might
be important (even if it might not concern your use-case). In this example, the
Scanner type documentation has a lot to say about how the type is used, as
well as some more technical details about how it’s implemented. There’s a lot
going on here, but what it breaks down to is:
1. Scanner splits up data into smaller pieces, called "tokens".
2. The default mode is to split on newlines, meaning each "token" will be a
single line of your file, with the trailing newline chopped off. You can
also change this behavior if you want, using one of several pre-defined
SplitFunc functions, or you write your own.
3. Scanner will keep returning tokens until you reach the end of the file
(EOF) or an error occurs.
After the description, but before any methods, go doc will also list any
functions in the same package that return a value (or pointer) of the type you
are asking about. The reason for this is because some types are designed to be
initialized with before they are used, so go doc will list anything that looks
like it might be a constructor function for that type first, so that you’re aware
of them. In this case there is a function called NewScanner that plugs in the
data source you’ll be reading from and returns a new scanner for that data,
ready to use.
Constructors In Go
While many types in Go are designed to be useful without needing
initialization, others require some configuration first, and will provide
constructor functions that do the setup for you. The convention for this is to
have a function of the form NewT(<arguments>) *T where T is the type it
returns, and the arguments areany requirements or options are passed as