arguments to this function.
In this case, Scanner needs a source to read from, so NewScanner takes an
io.Reader for the data source and initializes a new scanner to read from it.
We’ll get to io.Reader in just a moment, but first, you can examine the
methods in greater detail to see if you can get an idea of how bufio.Scanner
is supposed to be used. This can be done one method at a time by using go
doc <package name> <type name>.<method name>, or by using -all with
type to list them all at once.
In particular, there are three important methods for the word-counting
program: Scan, Text, and Err.
Listing 2.40. go doc Output For The Scan, Text and Err Methods
func (s *Scanner) Scan() bool
Scan advances the Scanner to the next token, which will then be
available through the Bytes or Text method. It returns false when the
scan stops, either by reaching the end of the input or an error. After
Scan returns false, the Err method will return any error that occurred
during scanning, except that if it was io.EOF, Err will return nil. Scan
panics if the split function returns too many empty tokens without
advancing the input. This is a common error mode for scanners.
func (s *Scanner) Text() string
Text returns the most recent token generated by a call to Scan as a
newly allocated string holding its bytes.
func (s *Scanner) Err() error
Err returns the first non-EOF error that was encountered by the Scanner.
So it looks like the general flow is to call Scan repeatedly, while getting new
tokens with Text, and finally calling Err to see if anything went wrong. This
is starting to make sense, but you’d be forgiven for thinking that the
documentation alone doesn’t give you the whole picture. Documentation is
great for understanding the particulars, but somtimes it’s far more helpful to
see an example. To fill this gap many Go packages include example snippets
as a part of their test suite, and you can view these using go doc -ex.
Listing 2.41. Example Usage From go doc -ex bufio.NewScanner
scanner := bufio.NewScanner(os.Stdin)
for scanner.Scan() {