fmt.Println(scanner.Text())
}
if err := scanner.Err(); err != nil {
fmt.Fprintln(os.Stderr, "reading standard input:", err)
}
IMPORTANT: Dear MEAP readers: For the longest time, it was actually
impossible to list examples using go doc, and you had to visit
https://pkg.go.dev (or its predecessor godoc.org) to find them, since the
indexing process there includes special processing for example functions so
that they can be presented alongside the rest of the documentatioin. This
totally ruined my go doc self-guided-learning zen thing, and I was kind of
bummed that I had to tell you to crack open a web browser just to view the
examples you already had on disk. However, as luck would have it, a
proposal to add this functionality (https://github.com/golang/go/issues/26715)
has seen some recent activity, and seems set to land before publication of this
book. Once the flags and output are finalized, this section will be updated
with the proper command, though it will likely be something like go doc -ex
bufio.NewScanner. Don’t get me wrong, pkg.go.dev is still awesome, and is
totally worth your time, since it provides ecosystem information go doc
cannot, and it’s very well-organized, but it’s so much faster to use go doc
locally, and knowing you can use it for whatever you need is pretty darn cool.
This makes the usage much more clear! Thanks to the example code, you can
see that Scan is designed to be used with a for loop, which automatically
takes care of getting new data on each iteration while at the same time
making sure it’s okay to proceed. Since Scan will return false when it’s
done, this means that the loop will keep running as long as there is more data
to get and nothing has gone wrong. This is a clever pattern, since it avoids the
need to check the Scan and Err methods repeatedly.
Examples like this can be very valuable when you are evaluating packages
for use in your own code and can help jump-start development, since they
provide a fully-working example as a starting point.
Tip
Whenever you’re in doubt about how you’re supposed to use a package, try