rune an alias for int32
1either 32 or 64 bits, depending on your architecture
The types that start with int are the signed integers, which are stored in
two’s complement format, allowing them to represent positive and negative
values. The types that start with uint are unsigned integers, and these types
can only store positive values starting from 0. You might notice that the
range of positive values for unsigned integers is higher than in the
corresponding signed equivalent. This is because signed integers reserve one
of their bits for indicating whether the value is negative or not. Unsigned
integers have a few quirks that make them useful for a more narrow range of
purposes, which we will discuss later in the chapter.
Types with a numeric suffix such as int64 or uint8 are constant-sized or
architecture-independent types, and the number indicates the size of each
type in bits. These types will always consume the same amount of memory,
and have the same range of values whether they are being run on a 32-bit or
64-bit system.
By contrast, the int, and uint types are architecture-dependent, which
means they will be either 32 or 64 bits in size, depending on the architecture
of the system they are compiled for. These types are provided to give you
general-purpose default integer types that will perform optimally, no matter
which architecuture they are compiled for.
Rounding out the list, byte and rune are aliases that exist to give more
meaningful names to integer values in certain contexts. byte is an alias for
uint8, because it is extremely common to refer to data in terms of 8-bit
chunks, or "bytes." The alias was created to distinguish between when code is
dealing with data and when it is dealing with a numeric value. This
convention is ubiquitous in the Go ecosystem, and you’ll run across many
functions in the standard library and elsewhere that either accept or return
data as a sequence of bytes ([]byte). Similarly, rune is exactly the same as
int32, except that it is used when talking about unicode characters in a string.