specified in the source, as opposed to coming from somewhere else, like a
variable or function call. When you make an assignment such as myInt := 5
or myString = "hello", the 5 and the "hello" are literals.
3.1.1 Choosing An Integer Type
With so many integer types to choose from, it helps to know which types you
might want to use, and for what purpose. For most tasks, you will probably
want to reach for int first, since it can represent both positive and negative
values, and because it will be the most efficient integer type for your
architecture. It will also be less work for you in terms of conversions because
it is:
1. The default type for integer literals
2. The most common integer type in standard library functions and most
3rd party packages
3. The type returned by built-in functions such as len() and cap()
4. The type used in indices in for-range loops
int64 is the largest native integer type in the language, and you’ll find it used
in the standard library for values that need the greatest range, such as
timestamps, file offsets and size limites. If you need the full range of values
provided by int64, or if you will be making a lot of calls to functions that
take an int64 as an argument, it can sometimes be helpful to have a value of
this type for compatibility. Otherwise, you can just convert from int as
needed.
As for the rest of the signed types (int32, int16, and int8), consider them on
an as-needed basis if required for compatibility or if there are measurable
performance reasons for using them. If you don’t know you need them, you
probably don’t. Try to avoid using another type just because it "takes less
memory", since this is a form a premature optimization, and will come with
extra overhead in type conversions in order to interoperate with more
common types. When in doubt, run benchmarks and profile your programs to
ensure that your choice in types is really the problem (usually it’s not).
Unsigned integers can be a bit trickier to use correctly since they can easily