133
6.4
#45: Returning a nil receiver
One possible fix is to assign ctx.Err() to err like so:
if err := ctx.Err(); err != nil {
return 0, 0, err
}
We keep returning err, but we first assign it to the result of ctx.Err(). Note that err
in this example shadows the result variable.
We conclude this discussion by emphasizing that named result parameters can
improve code readability in some cases (such as returning the same type multiple
times) and be quite handy in others. But we must recall that each parameter is initial-
ized to its zero value. As we have seen in this section, this can lead to subtle bugs that
aren’t always straightforward to spot while reading code. Therefore, let’s remain cau-
tious when using named result parameters, to avoid potential side effects.
 In the next section, we discuss a common mistake made by Go developers when a
function returns an interface. 
6.4
#45: Returning a nil receiver
In this section, we discuss the impact of returning an interface and why doing so may
lead to errors in some conditions. This mistake is probably one of the most wide-
spread in Go because it may be considered counterintuitive, at least before we’ve
made it.
 Let’s consider the following example. We will work on a Customer struct and
implement a Validate method to perform sanity checks. Instead of returning the first
error, we want to return a list of errors. To do that, we will create a custom error type
to convey multiple errors:
type MultiError struct {
errs []string
}
func (m *MultiError) Add(err error) {
m.errs = append(m.errs, err.Error())
}
Using a naked return statement
Another option is to use a naked return statement:
if err = ctx.Err(); err != nil {
return
}
However, doing so would break the rule stating that we shouldn’t mix naked returns
and returns with arguments. In this case, we should probably stick with the first
option. Remember that using named result parameters doesn’t necessarily mean
using naked returns. Sometimes we can just use named result parameters to make
a signature clearer.
Adds an error
