129
6.2
#43: Never using named result parameters
func (c customer) add(operation float64) {
c.data.balance += operation
}
func main() {
c := customer{data: &data{
balance: 100,
}}
c.add(50.)
fmt.Printf("balance: %.2f\n", c.data.balance)
}
Even though the receiver is a value, calling add changes the actual balance in the end:
150.00
In this case, we don’t need the receiver to be a pointer to mutate balance. However,
for clarity, we may favor using a pointer receiver to highlight that customer as a whole
object is mutable.
We should now have a good understanding of whether to use value or pointer receiv-
ers. Of course, it’s impossible to be exhaustive, as there will always be edge cases, but
this section’s goal was to provide guidance to cover most cases. By default, we can
choose to go with a value receiver unless there’s a good reason not to do so. In doubt,
we should use a pointer receiver.
 In the next section, we discuss named result parameters: what they are and when
to use them. 
6.2
#43: Never using named result parameters
Named result parameters are an infrequently used option in Go. This section looks at
when it’s considered appropriate to use named result parameters to make our API
more convenient. But first, let’s refresh our memory about how they work.
Mixing receiver types
Are we allowed to mix receiver types, such as a struct containing multiple methods,
some of which have pointer receivers and others of which have value receivers? The
consensus tends toward forbidding it. However, there are some counterexamples in
the standard library, for example, time.Time.
The designers wanted to enforce that a time.Time struct is immutable. Hence, most
methods such as After, IsZero, and UTC have a value receiver. But to comply with
existing interfaces such as encoding.TextUnmarshaler, time.Time has to imple-
ment the UnmarshalBinary([]byte) error method, which mutates the receiver
given a byte slice. Thus, this method has a pointer receiver.
Consequently, mixing receiver types should be avoided in general but is not forbidden
in 100% of cases.
Uses a value 
receiver
