Deployment with Kubernetes
148
In addition to Docker, to complete this chapter, you will need Kubernetes, which you can download 
at https://kubernetes.io (you will need the kubectl and minikube tools from it).
You can find the GitHub code for this chapter here:
https://github.com/PacktPublishing/microservices-with-go/tree/main/
Chapter08
Preparing application code for deployments
In this section, we are going to provide a high-level overview of a service deployment process and 
describe the actions required to prepare your microservices for deployments. You will learn how to 
configure Go microservices for running in different environments, how to build them for different 
operating systems, and some other tips for preparing your microservices for remote execution.
Let’s proceed to the basics of the deployment process.
Deployment basics
As we mentioned in the introduction to this chapter, deployments allow you to run and update your 
applications on one or multiple servers. Such servers are usually located remotely (clouds or dedicated 
web hosting) and are running all the time to allow your applications to serve the request or process 
data 24/7.
The deployment process for each environment usually consists of multiple steps. The steps include 
the following:
1.	
Build: Build a service by compiling it (for compiled languages, such as Go) and including 
additional required files.
2.	
Rollout: Copy the newly created build to servers of the target environment and replace the 
existing running code, if any, with the newly built one.
The rollout process is usually sequential: instead of replacing the build on all hosts parallelly, it performs 
one replacement at a time. For example, if you have ten service instances, the rollout process would 
first update one instance, then verify that the instance is healthy and move to the second one, and 
continue until it updates the last service instance. This is done to increase service reliability because 
if a new version consists of a bug or entirely fails to start on some server, the rollout would not affect 
all servers at once.
In order to enable the testing of microservices, servers can be classified into multiple categories, called 
environments:
•	 Local/development: Servers that are used for running and testing code while working on the 
code. This environment should never handle any requests from users, and it often consists just 
of a developer’s computer. It can be also configured to use simplified versions of a database and 
other components, such as single-server and in-memory implementations.
