Deployment with Kubernetes
160
•	 When you perform a deployment of your service, deploy it using a canary configuration first.
•	 Once you verify that the deployment was successful, make a deployment using a production 
configuration.
Canary deployments are strongly recommended for increasing the reliability of your deployments. 
Testing new changes on a small fraction of traffic helps to reduce the impact of various application 
bugs and other types of issues that your services can encounter.
Replace with Continuous Deployment (CD)
Continuous Deployment (CD) is a technique of making frequent recurring deployments. With CD, 
services get deployed automatically—for example, on each code change. The main benefit of CD is 
early deployment failure detection—if any change (such as a Git commit of a new service code) is 
causing a deployment failure, the failure would often get detected much sooner than in the case of 
manual deployments.
You can automate deployments by programmatically monitoring a change log (such as Git commit 
history), or by using Git hooks—configurable actions that are executed at specific stages of Git changes. 
With Kubernetes, once you detect a new version of your software, you can trigger a new deployment 
by using a kubectl apply command.
Due to the high cadence of version updates, CD requires some tooling for automated checks of service 
health. We are going to cover such tooling later in Chapter 11 and Chapter 12 of this book.
Summary
In this chapter, we have covered a very important topic—service deployments. You have learned about the 
basics of the service deployment process, as well as the necessary steps for preparing our microservices 
for deployment. Then, we introduced Kubernetes, a popular deployment and orchestration platform 
that is now provided by many companies and cloud providers. We have illustrated how to set up a 
local Kubernetes cluster and deploy our microservices to it, running multiple instances of each service 
to illustrate how easy is to run any arbitrary number of instances within the Kubernetes platform. 
The knowledge you gained should help you to set up more complex deployment processes, as well as 
to work with the services that are already deployed via Kubernetes.
This chapter summarizes our material on service deployments. In the next chapter, we are going to 
describe another important topic: unit and integration.
