Deployment with Kubernetes
158
As you may notice, Kubernetes created two pods for our service, the same number as we specified in 
the deployment configuration. Each pod has a unique identifier (UID), which is shown in the left 
column. You can see that Kubernetes created two pods for our metadata service.
You can check the logs of each pod by running the following command:
kubectl logs -f <POD_ID>
Now, perform the same changes that we did for the metadata service for the other two services, 
and verify that the pods are running.
If you want to make some manual API requests to the services, you need to set up port forwarding 
by running the following command:
kubectl port-forward <POD_ID> 8081:8081
This command would work for the metadata, rating, and movie services; however, you would 
need to replace the 8081 port value with 8082 and 8083, correspondingly.
If you did everything well, congratulations! We have finished setting up basic Kubernetes deployments 
of our microservices. Let’s summarize what we did in this section:
•	 First, we created container images for each of our services so that we could deploy them.
•	 Then, we published our container images to Docker Hub so that Kubernetes could pull the 
images during the deployment.
•	 We created a Kubernetes deployment configuration to tell it how to deploy our microservices.
•	 Finally, we tested our Kubernetes deployments using a combination of minikube and 
kubectl commands.
At this point, you should have some understanding of Kubernetes deployments and know how to deploy 
your microservices using them. This knowledge will help you to run your services on many platforms, 
including all popular cloud platforms, such as AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP).
Deployment best practices
In this section, we are going to describe some best practices related to the deployment process. These 
practices, listed here, will help you to set up a reliable deployment process for your microservices: 
•	 Automated rollbacks
•	 Canary deployments
•	 Continuous deployment (CD)
