137
Goroutines
A:4561
A:4567
B:4603          ** Goroutines Swapped
B:4621
...
Completed B
A:4457
** Goroutines Swapped
A:4463
...
A:4993
A:4999
Completed A
Terminating Program
Goroutine B begins to display prime numbers first. Once goroutine B prints prime
number 4591, the scheduler swaps out the goroutine for goroutine A. Goroutine A is
then given some time on the thread and swapped out for the B goroutine once again.
The B goroutine is allowed to finish all its work. Once goroutine B returns, you see
that goroutine A is given back the thread to finish its work. Every time you run this
program, the scheduler will slightly change the point where the time slice occurs. 
 Both example programs in listings 6.1 and 6.4 have shown how the scheduler runs
goroutines concurrently within a single logical processor. As stated earlier, the Go
standard library has a function called GOMAXPROCS in the runtime package that allows
you to specify the number of logical processors to be used by the scheduler. This is
how you can change the runtime to allocate a logical processor for every available
physical processor. The next listing will have our goroutines running in parallel.
import "runtime"
// Allocate a logical processor for every available core.
runtime.GOMAXPROCS(runtime.NumCPU())
The runtime package provides support for changing Go runtime configuration
parameters. In listing 6.6, we use two runtime functions to change the number of log-
ical processors for the scheduler to use. The NumCPU function returns the number of
physical processors that are available; therefore, the function call to GOMAXPROCS cre-
ates a logical processor for each available physical processor. It’s important to note
that using more than one logical processor doesn’t necessarily mean better perfor-
mance. Benchmarking is required to understand how your program performs when
changing any runtime configuration parameters. 
 If we give the scheduler more than one logical processor to use, we’ll see different
behavior in the output of our example programs. Let’s change the number of logical
processors to 2 and rerun the first example that printed the English alphabet.
Listing 6.6
How to change the number of logical processors
