147
Channels
running. After the program completes, we get the correct value of 4 and the race con-
dition no longer exists. 
6.5
Channels
Atomic functions and mutexes work, but they don’t make writing concurrent pro-
grams easier, less error-prone, or fun. In Go you don’t have only atomic functions and
mutexes to keep shared resources safe and eliminate race conditions. You also have
channels that synchronize goroutines as they send and receive the resources they
need to share between each other. 
 When a resource needs to be shared between goroutines, channels act as a conduit
between the goroutines and provide a mechanism that guarantees a synchronous
exchange. When declaring a channel, the type of data that will be shared needs to be
specified. Values and pointers of built-in, named, struct, and reference types can be
shared through a channel. 
 Creating a channel in Go requires the use of the built-in function make.
// Unbuffered channel of integers.
unbuffered := make(chan int)
// Buffered channel of strings.
buffered := make(chan string, 10)
In listing 6.17 you see the use of the built-in function make to create both an unbuf-
fered and buffered channel. The first argument to make requires the keyword chan and
then the type of data the channel will allow to be exchanged. If you’re creating a buff-
ered channel, then you specify the size of the channel’s buffer as the second argument. 
 Sending a value or pointer into a channel requires the use of the <- operator.
// Buffered channel of strings.
buffered := make(chan string, 10)
// Send a string through the channel.
buffered <- "Gopher"
In listing 6.18 we create a buffered channel of type string that contains a buffer of 10
values. Then we send the string “Gopher” through the channel. For another gorou-
tine to receive that string from the channel, we use the same <- operator, but this time
as a unary operator.
// Receive a string from the channel.
value := <-buffered
Listing 6.17
Using make to create a channel
Listing 6.18
Sending values into a channel
Listing 6.19
Receiving values from a channel
