131
Concurrency versus parallelism
Sometimes a running goroutine may need to perform a blocking syscall, such as open-
ing a file. When this happens, the thread and goroutine are detached from the logical
processor and the thread continues to block waiting for the syscall to return. In the
meantime, there’s a logical processor without a thread. So the scheduler creates a new
thread and attaches it to the logical processor. Then the scheduler will choose
another goroutine from the local run queue for execution. Once the syscall returns,
the goroutine is placed back into a local run queue, and the thread is put aside for
future use. 
 If a goroutine needs to make a network I/O call, the process is a bit different. In
this case, the goroutine is detached from the logical processor and moved to the run-
time integrated network poller. Once the poller indicates a read or write operation is
ready, the goroutine is assigned back to a logical processor to handle the operation.
There’s no restriction built into the scheduler for the number of logical processors
that can be created. But the runtime limits each program to a maximum of 10,000
threads by default. This value can be changed by calling the SetMaxThreads function
from the runtime/debug package. If any program attempts to use more threads, the
program crashes. 
 Concurrency is not parallelism. Parallelism can only be achieved when multiple
pieces of code are executing simultaneously against different physical processors. Par-
allelism is about doing a lot of things at once. Concurrency is about managing a lot of
things at once. In many cases, concurrency can outperform parallelism, because the
strain on the operating system and hardware is much less, which allows the system to
do more. This less-is-more philosophy is a mantra of the language. 
 If you want to run goroutines in parallel, you must use more than one logical pro-
cessor. When there are multiple logical processors, the scheduler will evenly distribute
goroutines between the logical processors. This will result in goroutines running on
different threads. But to have true parallelism, you still need to run your program on
a machine with multiple physical processors. If not, then the goroutines will be run-
ning concurrently against a single physical processor, even though the Go runtime is
using multiple threads. 
 Figure 6.3 shows the difference between running goroutines concurrently against
a single logical processor and concurrently in parallel against two logical processors.
It’s not recommended to blindly change the runtime default for a logical processor.
The scheduler contains intelligent algorithms that are updated and improved with
every release of Go. If you’re seeing performance issues that you believe could be
resolved by changing the number of logical processors, you have the ability to do so.
You’ll learn more about this soon.
