The output indicates that the a new GC cycle (triggered by the manual runtime.GC call) makes
the memory block carrying the slice elements collected, otherwise the fanalizers of these elements
will not get executed.
Let’s turn on the log.Println(*p) line and run the program again, then it will merely print 999,
which indicates the memory block carrying the slice elements is still not collected when the manual
GC cycle ends. Yes, the fact that the last element in the slice will still be used prevents the whole
memory block from being collected.
We may copy the long-lived tiny value part (so that it will be carried on a small memory block) to
let the old larger memory block collected. For example, we may replace the following line in the
above program (with the log.Println(*p) line turned on):
var p = &a[999]
with
var v = a[999] // make a copy
var p = &v
, then the manual GC will make the memory block carrying the slice elements collected.
The return results of some functions in the standard strings (or bytes) packages are substrings
(or subslices) of some arguments passed to these functions. Such functions include Fields, Split
and Trim functions. Similarly, we should duplicate such a result substring (or subslice) if it is long
lived but its length is small, and the corresponding argument is short lived but has a large length;
otherwise, the memory block carrying the underlying bytes of (the result and the argument) will not
get collected in time.
5.6
Try to generate less short-lived memory blocks to lower au-
tomatic GC frequency
In practice, most garbage comes from short-lived temporary value parts. Such short-lived value
parts are often allocated in the following scenarios:
• string concatenations. Many concatenated result strings are passed as arguments of some
function calls, then they will be discarded immediately. For some cases, to produce the final
argument strings, many intermediate temporary strings are created.
• conversions between string and byte slice. The conversion results will be used then discarded
soon. For safety, such a conversion needs to duplicate the underlying bytes. A memory block
allocation is often needed for the duplication.
• box non-interface values into interfaces. The interfaces will be used then discarded soon.
Most value boxing operations need one allocation.
There are also some other scenarios in which short-lived value parts will be generated.
In programming, we should try to generate less short-lived value parts to lower automatic GC
frequency.
5.7
Use new heap memory percentage strategy to control auto-
matic GC frequency
The value parts which contain pointers and are known clearly alive by Go runtime are called
(scannable) root value parts (call roots below). Roots mainly come from the value parts allocated
59
