Collecting Service Telemetry Data
230
To help you better understand the use cases of using metrics, let’s define some common metric types:
•	 Counters: These are time series representing the value of a cumulative counter over time. An 
example would be the counter of service requests – each data point would include a timestamp 
and the count of requests at that particular moment.
•	 Gauges: These are time series representing the changes of a single scalar value over time. An 
example of a gauge is a dataset that contains the amount of free disk space on a server at different 
moments: each data point contains a single numerical value.
•	 Histograms: These are time series representing the distribution of some value against a 
predefined set of value ranges, called buckets. An example of a histogram metric is a dataset, 
containing the number of users for different age groups.
Let’s focus on each metric type to help you understand their differences and the common use cases 
for each one.
Counter metrics are generally used for measuring two types of data:
•	 Cumulative value over time (for example, the total number of errors)
•	 Change of the cumulative value over time (for example, the number of newly registered users 
per hour)
The second use case is technically a different representation of the first one – if you know how many 
users you had at each moment in time, you can see how this value changes. Because of this, counters 
are often used to measure the rates of various events, such as API requests, over time.
The following code snippet provides an example of a Counter interface in a tally metrics library 
(we’ll review this library later in this chapter):
type Counter interface {
    // Inc increments the counter by a delta.
    Inc(delta int64)
}
Unlike counters, gauges are used for storing unique values of measurements, such as the service’s 
available memory over time. Here is a gauge example from a tally library:
type Gauge interface {
    // Update sets the gauges absolute value.
    Update(value float64)
}
