Collecting Service Telemetry Data
218
•	 Debugging information: Developers can log various types of additional information, such as 
request parameters or headers, that can help when debugging various issues.
•	 Warnings: Logs can indicate various system-level warnings, such as low disk space, that can 
be used as notification mechanisms for preventing various types of errors.
We used logs in the services that we created in Chapter 2 – our services have been logging some 
important status messages via the built-in log library. Here’s an example:
log.Printf("Starting the metadata service on port %d", port)
The built-in log library provides functionality for logging arbitrary text messages and panics. The 
output of the preceding operation would be as follows:
2022/07/01 13:05:21 Starting the metadata service on port 8081
By default, the log library records all logs to the stdout stream associated with the current process. 
But it is possible to set the output destination by calling the SetOutput function. This way, you can 
write your logs to files or send them over the network.
Two types of functions are provided by the log library that can be used if a service experiences an 
unexpected or non-recoverable error:
•	 fatal: Functions with this prefix immediately stop the execution of the process after logging 
the message.
•	 panic: After logging the message, they call the Go panic function, writing the output of the 
associated error. The following is an example output of calling a panic function:
2022/11/10 23:00:00 network unavailable
panic: network unavailable
While the built-in log library provides a simple way of logging arbitrary text messages, it lacks some 
useful functionality that makes it easier to collect and process the service logs. Among the missing 
features is the ability to log events in popular serialization formats, such as JSON, which would simplify 
how message data is parsed. Another issue is that it lacks Error and Errorf functions, which 
could be used for explicitly logging errors. Since the built-in logging library only provides a Print 
function, it’s unclear by default whether the logged message indicates an error, a warning, or neither.
Yet, the biggest missing piece in the built-in log library is the ability to perform structured logging. 
Structured logging is a technique that involves collecting log messages in the form of serialized 
structures, such as JSON records. A distinct feature of such structures, compared to arbitrary text 
strings, is that they can contain additional metadata in the form of fields – key-value records. This 
allows the service to represent the message metadata as any supported type, such as a number, string, 
or serialized record.
