Collecting service metrics
231
Some of the other gauge use cases include the following:
•	 Number of goroutines running by a service instance
•	 Number of active connections
•	 Number of open files
Histograms are slightly different from counters and gauges. They require us to define a set of ranges 
that will be used to store the subsets of recorded data. The following are some examples of using 
histogram metrics:
•	 Latency tracking: You can track how long it takes to perform a certain service operation by 
creating a set of buckets representing various duration ranges. For example, your buckets could 
be 0–100 ms, 100–200 ms, 200–300 ms, and so on.
•	 Cohort tracking: You can track statistical data, such as the number of records in each group 
of values. For example, you can track how many users of each age subscribed to your service.
Now that we have covered some high-level basics of metrics, let’s provide an overview of storing metrics.
Storing metrics
Similar to logs, storing metrics in a microservice environment brings some common challenges:
•	 Collection and aggregation: Metrics need to be collected from all service instances and sent 
for further aggregation and storage.
•	 Aggregation: Collected data needs to be aggregated, so various types of metrics, such as 
counters, would contain the data coming from all service instances. For example, the counter 
measuring the total number of requests should summarize the data across all service instances.
Let’s review some of the popular tools that provide such features.
Prometheus
Prometheus is a popular open source monitoring solution that provides mechanisms for collecting 
and querying service metrics, as well as setting up automated alerts for detecting various types of 
incidents. Prometheus gained popularity in the developer community due to its simple data model 
and being a very flexible model for data ingestion, which we are going to cover in this section.
Note
Did you know that Prometheus is written in Go? You can check its source code on its GitHub 
page: https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus.
