Collecting Service Telemetry Data
226
•	 Periodically review your log data.
•	 Set up appropriate log retention.
•	 Identify the message source in logs.
Let’s now cover each practice in detail.
Avoid using interpolated strings
One of the top logging anti-patterns is the usage of interpolated strings – messages that embed 
metadata inside text fields. Let’s take the following snippet of code as an example:
logger.Infof("User %s successfully registered", userID)
The problem with this code is that it merges two types of data into a single text message: an operation 
name (user registration) and a user identifier. Such messages make it harder to search and process 
log metadata: each time you need to extract userID from a log message, you would need to parse 
a string that contains it.
Let’s update our example by following the structured logging approach, where we log additional 
metadata as message fields:
logger.Infof("User successfully registered", zap.
String("userId", userID))
The updated version makes a big difference when you want to query your data. Now, you can query 
all log events that have User successfully registered text messages and easily access all 
user identifiers associated with them. Avoiding interpolated messages helps keep your log data easy 
to query and parse, simplifying all operations with it.
Standardize your log messages
In this section, we covered the benefits of log centralization and the advantages of querying the data 
across multiple services. But I would like to emphasize how it is important to standardize the format 
of log messages in a microservice environment. Sometimes, it is useful to execute log queries that 
span multiple services, API endpoint handlers, or other components. For example, you may need to 
perform the following types of queries on your log data:
•	 Get the distribution of timeout errors across all services.
•	 Get the daily count of errors for each API endpoint.
•	 Get distinct error messages across all database repositories.
