Collecting service metrics
229
•	 Name of the service
•	 Name of the component emitting the event (for example, endpoint name)
•	 Name of the file (optional)
A more detailed version of the preceding log message looks like this:
{"level":"error", "time":"2022-09-04T20:10:10+1:00","message":"
Request timed out", "service":"rating", "component": "handler", 
"endpoint": "putRating", "file": "handler.go"}
At this point, we have discussed the main topics related to logging and can move on to the next section, 
which describes another type of telemetry data – metrics.
Collecting service metrics
In this section, we are going to describe another type of service telemetry data: metrics. To understand 
what metrics are and how they are different from log data, let’s start with an example. Imagine that 
you have a set of services providing APIs to their users, and you want to know how many times per 
second each API endpoint is called. How would you do this?
One possible way of solving this problem is using logs. We could create a log event for each request, and 
then we would be able to count the number of events for each endpoint, aggregating them by second, 
minute, or in any other possible way. Such a solution would work until we get too many requests per 
endpoint and can’t log each one independently anymore. Let’s assume there is a service that processes 
more than a million requests per second. If we used logs to measure its performance, we would need 
to produce more than a million log events every second, generating lots of data.
A more optimal solution to this problem would be to use some sort of value-based aggregation. Instead 
of storing the data representing each request separately, we could summarize the count of requests 
per second, minute, or hour, making the data more optimal for storing.
The problem that we just described is a perfect use case for using metrics – real-time quantitative 
measurements of system performance, such as request rate, latency, or cumulative counts. Like logs, 
metrics are time-based – each record includes a timestamp representing a unique instant of time in 
the past. However, unlike log events, metrics are primarily used for storing individual values. In our 
example, the value of an endpoint request rate metric would be the count of requests per second.
Metrics are generally represented as time series – sets of objects, called data points, containing the 
following data:
•	 Timestamp
•	 Value (most commonly, the value is numerical)
•	 An optional set of tags, defined as key-value pairs, that contain any additional metadata
