Collecting Service Telemetry Data
224
Storing microservice logs
By default, logs of each service instance are written to the output stream of the process running it. 
This mechanism of log collection allows us to monitor service operations by continuously reading 
the data from the associated stream (stdout in most cases) on a host running a service instance. 
However, without any additional software, the log data would not be persisted, so you would not be 
able to read your previously recorded logs after a service restart or a sudden crash.
Various software solutions allow us to store and query the log data in a multi-service environment. 
They help solve multiple other problems:
•	 Distributed log collection: If you have multiple services running on different hosts, you must 
collect the service logs on each host independently and send them for further aggregation.
•	 Centralized log storage: To be able to query the data that’s emitted by different services, you 
need to store it in a centralized way – all logs across all services should be accessible during 
the query execution.
•	 Data retention: Logging data usually takes a lot of disk space, and it often becomes too expensive 
to store it indefinitely for all your services. To solve this problem, you need to establish the 
right data retention policies for your services that will allow you to configure how long you 
can store the data for each one.
•	 Efficient indexing: To be able to quickly query your logging data, the logs need to be indexed 
and stored efficiently. Modern indexing software can help you query terabytes of log data in 
under 10 milliseconds.
Different tools help facilitate such log operations, such as Elasticsearch and Graylog. Let’s briefly review 
Elasticsearch to provide an example of an end-to-end log management solution.
Elasticsearch is a popular open source search engine that was created in 2010 and quickly gained 
popularity as a scalable system for indexing and querying different types of structured data. While the 
primary use case of Elasticsearch is a full-text search, it can be efficiently used for storing and querying 
various types of structured data, such as service logs. Elasticsearch is also a part of the toolkit called 
the Elastic Stack, also called ELK, which includes some other systems:
•	 Logstash: A data processing pipeline that can collect, aggregate, and transform various types 
of data, such as service logs
•	 Kibana: A user interface for accessing the data in Elasticsearch, providing convenient visualization 
and querying features
