Collecting service logs
219
The following snippet includes an example of a JSON-encoded log structure:
{"level":"info", "time":"2022-09-04T20:10:10+1:00","message":"S
ervice started", "service":"metadata"}
As you may have noticed, in addition to using JSON as the output format, there are two additional 
features of the preceding log format:
•	 Log level: There is a field called level that specifies the type of a log message.
•	 Additional message fields: Our example includes a field called service, which is used to 
indicate the service that emitted the message.
The output format described earlier allows us to decode the log messages much easier. It also helps us 
interpret their contents based on the log level and the additional message fields. Additional metadata 
can also be used for searching: for example, we can search for messages that have a particular service 
field value.
Now, let’s focus on log-level metadata from the previous example. First, let’s review some of the 
common log levels:
•	 Info: Informational messages that do not indicate any error. An example of such a message is 
a log record indicating that the service successfully connected to the database.
•	 Error: Messages indicating errors, such as network timeouts.
•	 Warning: Messages indicating some potential issues, such as too many open files.
•	 Fatal: Messages indicating critical or non-recoverable errors, such as insufficient memory, that 
make executing the service further impossible.
•	 Debug: Messages that provide some additional context to the developers that can help troubleshoot 
various issues or get some additional insights for application performance. Collecting Debug 
messages is usually disabled by default, as they often generate a large amount of data.
Log levels also help us interpret log messages. Consider the following unstructured message produced 
by the built-in log library, which does not include any level information:
2022/06/06 23:00:00 Connection terminated
Can you tell whether it’s a regular informational message indicating the regular behavior (for example, 
the service intentionally terminated a connection after performing some work), a warning, or an 
error? If this is an error, is it critical or not? Without the log level providing additional context, it is 
difficult to interpret this message.
Another advantage of explicitly using log levels is the ability to enable or disable that ability to log 
specific types of levels. For example, logging Debug messages can be disabled under normal service 
conditions and enabled during troubleshooting. Debug messages often include much more information 
