Tracing
237
Standardize metric and tag names
Imagine that you have hundreds of services, and each service follows different metric naming conventions. 
For example, one service could be using api_errors as the name of the API error counter metric, 
while the other could be using the api_request_errors name. If you wanted to compare the 
metrics for such services, you would need to remember which naming convention each service was 
using. Such metric discovery will always take time, reducing your ability to analyze your data.
A much better solution is to standardize the names of common metrics and tags across all your services. 
This way, you can easily search and compare various performance indicators, such as service client and 
server error rates, API throughput, and request latency. In Chapter 12, we will review some common 
performance indicators that you can use to monitor the health of your services.
Set the appropriate retention
Most time series databases are capable of storing large datasets of metrics due to efficient aggregation. 
Unlike logs that require you to store each record independently, metrics can be aggregated into a 
smaller dataset. For example, if you store the counter data, you can store the sums of the values 
instead of storing each value separately. Even with these optimizations, time series data can take a lot 
of disk space to store. Large companies can store terabytes of metrics data, so it becomes important 
to manage its size and set up data retention policies, similar to logs and other types of telemetry data.
Metric storages, such as Prometheus, have a default retention time of 15 days, allowing you to change 
it in the settings. For example, to set the data retention time in Prometheus to 60 days, you can use 
the following flag:
--storage.tsdb.retention.time=60d
Limiting the storage retention time helps keep the size of the time series datasets under control, 
making it easier to manage the storage capacity and plan the infrastructure spending on data storage.
Now that we’ve discussed the metrics data, let’s move on to the next section, which covers a powerful 
technique: tracing.
Tracing
So far, we have covered two common types of observability data – logs and metrics. Having logs and 
metrics data in place is often sufficient for service debugging and troubleshooting. However, there is 
another type of data that is useful for getting insights into microservice communication and data flows.
In this section, we are going to discuss distributed tracing – a technique that involves recording and 
analyzing interactions between different services and service components. The main idea behind 
distributed tracing is to automatically record all such interactions and provide a convenient way to 
