249
Concurrency for web applications
Here’s where you need to be careful. Remember that you’re converting an application
to a concurrent one, with multiple goroutines running at the same time. If you have
some resources that are shared, the changes can possibly cause a race condition.
In this case, you do have a shared resource: the original image that was uploaded to
the mosaic application. The nearest function finds the best-fitting tile image and
removes it from the tile database in order not to have duplicate tiles. This means if the
cut goroutines happen to find the same tile as the best fitting, at the same time, there
will be a race condition.
 To eliminate the race condition, you can use a common technique called mutual
exclusion, mutex for short. Mutex refers to the requirement that only one process (in our
case, a goroutine) can access a critical section at the same time. In the case of the con-
current mosaic application, you need to implement mutex on the nearest function.
 To do this, you can use Go’s Mutex struct in the sync package. First, define a DB
struct, where the struct encapsulates both the actual tile store as well as a mutex flag,
shown next.  
type DB struct {
  mutex *sync.Mutex
  store map[string][3]float64
}
Next, change the nearest function into a method on the DB struct, shown here.
func (db *DB) nearest(target [3]float64) string {
  var filename string
  db.mutex.Lock()  
  smallest := 1000000.0
Race condition
A race condition exists when the program depends on a specific sequence or timing
for it to happen and specific sequence or timing can’t be guaranteed. As a result, the
behavior of the program becomes erratic and unpredictable. 
Race conditions commonly appear in concurrent programs that modify a shared re-
source. If two or more processes or threads try to modify the shared resource at the
same time, the one that gets to the resource first will behave as expected but the
other processes won’t. Because we can’t predict which process gets the resource
first, the system won’t behave consistently.
Race conditions are notoriously difficult to debug, although they aren’t difficult to fix
once the problem is identified.
Listing 9.19
The DB struct
Listing 9.20
The nearest method
Sets mutex flag 
by locking it
