233
Channels
Channels are typed values that allow goroutines to communicate with each other.
Channels are allocated using make, and the resulting value is a reference to an under-
lying data structure. This, for example, allocates a channel of integers:
ch := make(chan int)
Channels are, by default, unbuffered. If an optional integer parameter is provided, a
buffered channel of the given size is allocated instead. This creates a buffered channel of
integers with the size 10:
ch := make(chan int, 10)
Unbuffered channels are synchronous. You can think of unbuffered channels as a box
that can contain only one thing at a time. Once a goroutine puts something into this
box, no other goroutines can put anything in, unless another goroutine takes out
whatever is inside it first. This means if another goroutine wants to put in something
else when the box contains something already, it will block and go to sleep until the
box is empty. 
 Similarly, if a goroutine tries to take out something from this box and it’s empty,
it’ll block and go to sleep until the box has something in it.
 The syntax for putting things into a channel is quickly recognizable, visually. This
puts an integer 1 into the channel ch:
ch <- 1
Taking out the value from a channel is equally recognizable. This removes the value
from the channel and assigns it to the variable i:
i := <- ch
Channels can be directional. By default, channels work both ways (bidirectional) and
values can be sent to or received from it. But channels can be restricted to send-only or
receive-only. This allocates a send-only channel of strings:
ch := make(chan <- string)
This allocates a receive-only channel of strings:
ch := make(<-chan string)
Although channels can be allocated to be directional, they can also be allocated as
bidirectional but returned as directional. You’ll see an example of this near the end of
this chapter.
9.3.1
Synchronization with channels
As you can imagine, channels are useful when you want to synchronize between two
goroutines—especially when you have one goroutine dependent on another. Let’s
jump into some code now and use the WaitGroup example to show how synchroniza-
tion can be done using channels instead, shown in this listing.
