252
CHAPTER 9
Leveraging Go concurrency
    c <- base64.StdEncoding.EncodeToString(buf2.Bytes())
  }()
  return c
}
As in the cut function, the main logic in combining the images resides in an anony-
mous goroutine, and you create and return a receive-only channel. As a result, you
can encode the original image while combining the four photo mosaic segments.
 In the anonymous goroutine, you create another anonymous function and assign
it to a variable copy. This function copies a photo mosaic segment into the final photo
mosaic and will be run as a goroutine later. Because the copy function is called as a
goroutine, you won’t be able to control it when it completes. To synchronize the com-
pletion of the copying, you use a WaitGroup. You create a WaitGroup, wg, and then set
the counter to 4 using the Add method. Each time the copy function completes, it will
decrement the counter using the Done method. You call the Wait method just before
encoding the image to allow all the copy goroutines to complete and you have a com-
plete photo mosaic image.
 Remember that the input to the combine function includes the four channels com-
ing from the cut function containing the photo mosaic segments, and you don’t know
when the channels have segments. You could try to receive each one of those channels
in sequence, but that wouldn’t be very concurrent. What I like to do is to start process-
ing whichever segment that comes first, and the select statement fits the bill nicely.
 You loop indefinitely, and in each iteration, you select the channel that’s ready
with a value. (If more than one is available, Go randomly assigns you one.) You use the
image from this channel and start a goroutine with the copy function. You’re using
the multivalue format for receiving values from the channel, meaning the second vari-
able (ok1, ok2, ok3, or ok4) tells you if you’ve successfully received from the channel.
The for loop breaks once you’ve successfully received on all channels.
 Moving on, and referring to the WaitGroup wg you used earlier, remember that
even though you received all the photo mosaic segments successfully, you have in turn
started four separate goroutines, which might not have completed at that time. The
Wait method on the WaitGroup wg blocks the encoding of the assembled photo
mosaic until the photo mosaic is completed.
 Now that you have the concurrent mosaic application, let’s run it. For now, run go
build and then execute it with just one CPU, assuming that your code is in a directory
named mosaic_concurrent:
GOMAXPROCS=1 ./mosaic_concurrent
You can see the results in figure 9.8, which uses the same target picture and tile pic-
tures when you run it with a single CPU.
 If you’re sharp-eyed, you might see the slight differences in the photo mosaic that’s
generated (it works better on the e-book version where you can see the color
