236
CHAPTER 10
The standard library
be used to implement scenarios such as “If I don’t receive any message in this channel
for 5 seconds, I will … .” But codebases often include calls to time.After in a loop,
which, as we describe in this section, may be a root cause of memory leaks.
 Let’s consider the following example. We will implement a function that repeat-
edly consumes messages from a channel. We also want to log a warning if we haven’t
received any messages for more than 1 hour. Here is a possible implementation:
func consumer(ch <-chan Event) {
for {
select {
case event := <-ch:
handle(event)
case <-time.After(time.Hour):
log.Println("warning: no messages received")
}
}
}
Here, we use select in two cases: receiving a message from ch and after 1 hour
without messages (time.After is evaluated during each iteration, so the timeout is
reset every time). At first sight, this code looks OK. However, it may lead to memory
usage issues.
 As we said, time.After returns a channel. We may expect this channel to be closed
during each loop iteration, but this isn’t the case. The resources created by
time.After (including the channel) are released once the timeout expires and use
memory until that happens. How much memory? In Go 1.15, about 200 bytes of mem-
ory are used per call to time.After. If we receive a significant volume of messages,
such as 5 million per hour, our application will consume 1 GB of memory to store the
time.After resources.
 Can we fix this issue by closing the channel programmatically during each itera-
tion? No. The returned channel is a <-chan time.Time, meaning it is a receive-only
channel that can’t be closed.
 We have several options to fix our example. The first is to use a context instead of
time.After:
func consumer(ch <-chan Event) {
for {
ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(context.Background(), time.Hour)
select {
case event := <-ch:
cancel()
handle(event)
case <-ctx.Done():
log.Println("warning: no messages received")
}
}
}
The downside of this approach is that we have to re-create a context during every sin-
gle loop iteration. Creating a context isn’t the most lightweight operation in Go: for
example, it requires creating a channel. Can we do better?
Handles 
the event
Increments the 
idle counter
Main 
loop
Creates a context
with timeout
Cancels context if we 
receive a message
Context 
cancellation
