141
8.3
Certificate management
          - path: /Order 
            pathType: Prefix
            backend:
              service:
                name: order
                port:
                  number: 8080
  tls:
    - hosts:
        - ingress.local  
The Ingress resource has name and label fields like other Kubernetes resources, and
most of the configurations are done via the annotation section. This is followed by
some rule patterns in which the route operation is applied to a specific path (e.g.,
backend protocol, certificate issuer, and SSL redirect).
 To deploy the Ingress controller, you can use the helm package manager
(https://helm.sh/) to deploy the nginx-ingress chart:
helm repo add ingress-nginx https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx 
helm repo  update #B
helm install nginx-ingress ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx 
This will simply deploy an nginx instance inside a pod, creating a load balancer. When-
ever you request this load balancer, it goes through the NGINX pod, which also con-
tains nginx.conf. NGINX configurations are rerendered whenever there is a change
for any Ingress resource. 
 In sum, we deployed a pod that contains the actual workload, in our case, any
microservice. Then we learned how to manage replicas of that pod and automatically
handle image updates. We used Service to expose the pod to the public using Service
with the LoadBalancer, NodePort, and ClusterIP options. Finally, we tried to understand
the benefits of using the NGINX Ingress controller, which provisions a load balancer
and then uses Ingress resources to configure routing for public access. Now that we
understand how the public traffic reaches the pod in the Kubernetes environment,
let’s look at how TLS certification automation is handled, as we also need it for Ingress
resources.
8.3
Certificate management
We already addressed how TLS-enabled communication works for gRPC microser-
vices and followed a step-by-step explanation of TLS certification generation for
secure gRPC communication. In this section, we will automate this process via cert-
manager (https://cert-manager.io/docs/), a tool that helps us obtain, renew, then use
certificates in the Kubernetes environment. cert-manager provides custom CRDs (cus-
tom resource definitions), which are responsible for certificate-related resources and
for integrating third parties to obtain certificates. Vault (https://www.vaultproject.io/)
Context path for the Order gRPC
Authorized domain for TLS
Adds the required
repository for the chart
Updates the repository index
Installs resources 
via the chart
