154
CHAPTER 9
Observability
9.1
Observability
Microservice architecture is a distributed system in which services communicate to
maintain data consistency. Let’s say that PlaceOrder visits three services to create an
order, charge a customer’s credit card, and ship it to the customer. An error can occur
in any of those services while handling a PlaceOrder operation, and this is where the
challenge begins. Observability helps us track a problem’s root cause by analyzing
traces, metrics, and logs. This chapter will show how observability can be perfectly
handled in a microservices system that uses gRPC for communication. In this context,
observability can answer the following questions:
Why did the product service crash yesterday?
Why is performance degraded in the middle of the day each Thursday?
What is the performance of the Payment service like right now?
To answer these questions, we need a proper observability system that shows traces, met-
rics, and logs in the correct format so that we can analyze them and take action. We will
use different technologies such as Jaeger (https://www.jaegertracing.io/), OpenTelem-
etry (https://opentelemetry.io/), and Prometheus (https://prometheus.io/), but first
let’s look at what traces, metrics, and logs are in a microservices environment.
9.1.1
Traces
A trace, a collection of operations to handle a unique transaction, refers to the journey of a
request across services in a distributed system. It encodes the metadata of a specific
request to propagate it until it reaches its final service. A trace can contain one or
more spans that map to a single operation (see figure 9.1).
About code examples in this chapter
In chapter 4, we started coding our services; in this chapter, we depend on what we
implemented from chapters 4 through 8. The examples in this chapter are complete,
and you can run the entire application by checking the README file in the repository.
We will continue to extend the application to see how observability works.
PlaceOrder
OrderService:saveToDB()
paymentClient:Create()
paymentService:charge()
Span 3
Span 2
Span 1
Trace
Figure 9.1
Journey of a request
