144
CHAPTER 8
Deployment
8.3.4
Certificates on the client side
minikube has an available command, minikube tunnel, that creates a proxy through
127.0.0.1 so that whenever you request 127.0.0.1, that request will be proxied to the
Ingress controller inside minikube. Let’s create a tunnel:
minikube tunnel
Open your browser and request https://ingress.local to see if you will get a certificate
issued. You can simply click the padlock/info icon in the browser next to the insecure
message and download the certificate. If you double-click on that certificate, it will
prompt you to install the certificate into your key chain. Refer to http://mng.bz/zXZg
for detailed steps on how to collect the certificate from the browser. 
 You should see a secure connection after installing the certificate. We are request-
ing a browser, but this is not a gRPC communication. To make a gRPC call, we can still
use grpcurl and provide the .proto files to understand what kind of methods are avail-
able to grpcurl for the requested service:
grpcurl -import-path /path/to/order -proto order.proto ingress.local:443 
➥ Order.Create
In previous chapters, we handled those .proto files; locate them on your computer and
pass the folder’s full path to the grpcurl command with the parameter -import-path and
-proto file. Now grpcurl knows the methods to construct correct request metadata for
the gRPC call. Notice that we don’t need .proto files for the programmatic approach.
For example, if you want to call the Order service via a Go client, adding .proto files as
a dependency and using client functions to call specific services is enough.
 We started with creating a pod and exposing it to the public via the Service
resource. Using the LoadBalancer Service type seemed straightforward, but it may not
be efficient for microservices because we end up with lots of load balancers, which is
not cost-effective. Then we used the Ingress controller to handle routing with Ingress
resources, and the controller became our single-entry point as a load balancer. Finally,
we managed our certificates with a cert-manager, as gRPC only works with HTTPS
over HTTP/2. Now that we understand how to complete a simple deployment into a
Kubernetes cluster, let’s look at advanced deployment strategies we can use in micro-
services deployments.
8.4
Deployment strategies
Deploying to Kubernetes is not a one-time operation; it is an operation that is inte-
grated into a CD pipeline that updates the container image artifact once we want to
make changes in the actual workload. This is mostly done by updating the image ver-
sion, but it can also be done by updating the environment variables of pod containers
or by changing replicas of a deployment. You will hear about RollingUpdate, Blue-
Green, or Canary deployment while searching the internals of Kubernetes deployment.
Let’s look at each of these deployment strategies with real-life examples.
