155
9.1
Observability
As shown in figure 9.1, the name of the journey is PlaceOrder, and once it is initialized,
a trace ID is automatically generated. Then it spans to multiple parts such as saving in
the database and then calling the Payment service via the payment client. The pay-
ment client call process also creates another span while it is in the Payment service to
make a query in a logging backend using a trace ID and sorting it by date in ascending
order to see what happened to the request. We can see gRPC-related metadata in
spans under a specific trace (figure 9.2).
 Figure 9.2 is for a sever span that contains information about a single operation: the
entry point of payment.Create. Keys are already implemented within the specific instru-
mentation library contracted by the OpenTelemetry project. (You can see all instru-
mentation libraries here https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/.) rpc
.service and rpc.method refer to the gRPC
service name and gRPC method name under
that service, respectively. span.kind is used
for pointing out if instrumentation is done
on either the client or server side. Finally,
rpc.system shows what sort of RPC is used in
service communication, in this case gRPC.
Now that we understand how trace and span
work together, let’s look at what metrics we
can have in a microservices environment.
9.1.2
Metrics
Metrics contain numerical values to help us define a service’s behavior over time. Pro-
metheus has metrics that are defined by name, value, label, and timestamp. Using
these fields, we can see metrics over time. We can also group them using their labels.
Of course, we can apply other aggregation techniques (https://prometheus.io/docs/
prometheus/latest/querying/functions/) using metric fields, SLA, SLO, and SLI, and
obtain information about the system. For more in-depth information, see Google’s
Site Reliability Engineering book (https://sre.google/sre-book/table-of-contents/).
SLA
An SLA (service-level agreement) is an agreement between customers and service pro-
viders and contains measurable metrics such as latency, throughput, and uptime. It is
not easy to measure and report SLAs, so a stable observability system is important.
SLI
An SLI (service-level indicator) is a specific metric that helps showcase service quality
to customers by referencing request latency, error rate, and throughput for example.
The statement “The throughput of our service is 1000/ms” indicates that this service
can handle 1,000 operations per millisecond.
SLO
A SLO (service-level objective) is the goal for a product team to satisfy SLA. Especially
in SaaS projects, you can see the SLA in terms and conditions pages. A typical example
rpc.service
rpc.method
span.kind
rpc.system
grpc
server
Create
Payment
Span value
Span key
Figure 9.2
Span tags
