Testing best practices
187
end of each integration test that uses persistent data storage to clean up the created records, whenever 
this is possible. 
Now, the question is when we should write integration tests. It is always up to you; however, I do have 
some general suggestions:
•	 Test critical flows: Make sure you test the entire flows, such as user signups and logins
•	 Test critical endpoints: Perform the tests of the most critical endpoints that your services 
provide to your users
Additionally, you may have integration tests that are executed after each code change. Systems such as 
Jenkins provide these kinds of features and allow you to plug any custom logic that would be executed 
into each update of your code. We won’t cover Jenkins setup in this book, but you can familiarize 
yourself with its documentation on the official website (https://www.jenkins.io).
As we have illustrated how to write both unit and integration tests, let’s proceed to the next section 
of the book, describing some of the best practices of Go testing.
Testing best practices
In this section, we are going to list some additional useful testing tips that are going to help you to 
improve the quality of your tests.
Using helpful messages
One of the most important aspects of writing tests is providing enough information in error logs that 
it is easy to understand exactly what went wrong and which test case triggered the failure. Consider 
the following test case code:
if got, want := Process(tt.in), tt.want; got != want {
  t.Errorf("Result mismatch")
}
The error log does not include both the expected and the actual value received from the function 
being tested, making it harder to understand what the function returned and how it was different 
from the expected value.
The better log line would be as follows:
t.Errorf("got %v, want %v", got, want)
This log line includes the expected and the actual returned value of the function and provides much 
more context to you when you debug the test.
