204
CHAPTER 8
Standard library
The rules in listing 8.34 come from the standard library. They mean that the imple-
mentation of the Write method should attempt to write the entire length of the byte
slice that’s passed in. But if that isn’t possible, then the method must return an error.
The number of bytes reported as written can be less than the length of the byte slice,
but never more. Finally, the byte slice must never be modified in any way. 
 Let’s look at the declaration of the Reader interface.
type Reader interface {
Read(p []byte) (n int, err error)
}
The io.Reader interface in listing 8.35 declares a single method, Read, that accepts a
byte slice and returns two values. The first value is the number of bytes read and the
second value is an error. The rules for implementing this method are as follows.
(1) Read reads up to len(p) bytes into p. It returns the number of bytes
read (0 <= n <= len(p)) and any error encountered. Even if Read returns
n < len(p), it may use all of p as scratch space during the call. If
some data is available but not len(p) bytes, Read conventionally
returns what is available instead of waiting for more.
(2) When Read encounters an error or end-of-file condition after
successfully reading n > 0 bytes, it returns the number of bytes read.
It may return the (non-nil) error from the same call or return the
error (and n == 0) from a subsequent call. An instance of this general
case is that a Reader returning a non-zero number of bytes at the end
of the input stream may return either err == EOF or err == nil. The next
Read should return 0, EOF regardless.
(3) Callers should always process the n > 0 bytes returned before
considering the error err. Doing so correctly handles I/O errors that
happen after reading some bytes and also both of the allowed EOF
behaviors.
(4) Implementations of Read are discouraged from returning a zero byte
count with a nil error, and callers should treat that situation as a
no-op.
There are four rules listed in the standard library about implementing the Read
method. The first rule states that the implementation should attempt to read the
entire length of the byte slice that’s passed in. It’s okay to read less than the entire
length, and it shouldn’t wait to read the entire length if that much data isn’t available
at the time of the call. 
 The second rule provides guidance about end of file (EOF) read conditions. When
the last byte is read, two options are available. Read either returns the final bytes with
the proper count and EOF for the error value, or returns the final bytes with the
Listing 8.35
Declaration of the io.Reader interface
Listing 8.36
Documentation for the io.Reader interface
