187
Logging
8.2
Logging
Your programs have bugs, even if they haven’t shown themselves yet. That’s the nature
of software development. Logging is a way to find those bugs and learn more about
how your program is functioning. Logs can be your eyes and ears, providing code trac-
ing, profiling, and analytics. With this in mind, the standard library provides a log
package that can be used with some basic configuration. You can also create custom
loggers to implement your own specific logging needs. 
 Logging has a long history in UNIX, and this has carried over into the log package.
Traditional CLI (command-line interface) programs write their output to the stdout
device. This device exists on all operating systems and is the default destination for
standard text output. Terminals are configured by default to display text written to
this device. Using this single destination works great until you have a program that
needs to write both output and details about how the program is functioning. When
you want to write logging information, you want to write that to a different destination
so your output and logging won’t be mixed together. 
 To solve this problem, UNIX architects added a device called stderr. This device
was created to be the default destination for logging. It allows developers to separate
their programs’ output from their logging. For a user to see both the output and the
logging when running a program, terminal consoles are configured to display what’s
written to both stdout and stderr. But if your program only writes logs, then it’s com-
mon practice to write general logging information to stdout and errors or warnings
to stderr. 
8.2.1
Log package
Let’s start with the base functionality provided by the log package before you learn
how to create your own custom loggers. The purpose of logging is to get a trace of
what the program is doing, where it’s happening, and when. This is some of the infor-
mation that you can write on every log line with some configuration. 
TRACE: 2009/11/10 23:00:00.000000 /tmpfs/gosandbox-/prog.go:14: message
In listing 8.2 you see a log entry produced by the log package. This log entry contains
a prefix, a datetime stamp, the full path to the source code writing to the log, the line
of code performing the write, and finally the message. Let’s look at a program that
allows you to configure the log package to write such a line.
01 // This sample program demonstrates how to use the base log package.
02 package main
03
04 import (
Listing 8.2
Sample trace line
Listing 8.3
listing03.go
