105
7.2
Testing with a unit test
Once you start to use third parties, test execution will slow down to wait for all the
dependent components. 
 Going from a unit test to an end-to-end test has cost increases because more com-
ponents mean more resource consumption, and thus more money. The unit test has
the greatest percentage of the pyramid because it is fast and cheap. In the same way,
the end-to-end test has the lowest percentage of the pyramid because it is expensive
and slow to run. This does not mean you need to write a unit test but not an end-to-
end test. It does mean you should arrange the percentage of test types as stated in the
test pyramid. Now that we can see the relations between testing strategies, let’s look at
how those strategies are used to verify the microservice application behavior.
7.2
Testing with a unit test
Automated testing gives faster feedback, and thus saves on time and cost. Unit tests
are good for verifying one basic operation unit at a time, but is that enough to verify
your implementation? We will see different testing strategies, such as integration and
end-to-end tests, but let’s look at a SUT first.
7.2.1
System under test
The SUT test contains inputs, execution conditions, and expected results to verify its
behavior within a codebase. A SUT means a software element is being tested. Based
on your testing strategy, a SUT can be a class or an entire application. This test is
important if you are testing a specific layer in hexagonal architecture because you
need to know what to test in that layer. It becomes a test suite if you group related tests
to verify the behavior of a SUT. In figure 7.2, one happy path and three edge case tests
form a test suite to verify different kinds of SUT behavior.
Create
order
success
Create
order
invalid
user
Create
order
invalid
product
Create
order
network
failure
Happy path
scenario test
Edge case
scenario tests
Verify behavior
SUT
(class,
application,
etc.)
Test suite
Figure 7.2
A test suite is formed 
by a set of related tests, and its 
goal is to verify a SUT.
