89
6.1
Resiliency patterns

MaxRequests limits the number of requests allowed to pass through a half-open
circuit. The difference between an open and half-open circuit is that a half-
open one allows certain requests to pass through the circuit based on your con-
figuration, whereas you can’t pass through an open request. 

Interval mainly defines when the count is cleared while the state is closed. For
some use cases, you may not want to clear the interval, even if it has been a long
time since you last saw a failure. However, this interval is cleared for most use
cases to allow users to make failures within a reasonable time interval. 

Timeout decides when to change a circuit breaker state from an open to a half-
open state. The advantage of this change is that in an open state, the requests
will fail fast, whereas in a half-open state, the circuit breaker allows passing
through a half-open circuit by limiting the number of requests.

ReadyToTrip checks the state of the failure threshold after the last failure and
decides on whether to open the circuit completely.

OnStateChange is mainly used for tracking state changes while handling business
models within a function wrapper.
With this very basic explanation of the configurations of a circuit breaker out of the
way, let’s design client-server communication using a circuit breaker pattern with the
following characteristics:
The maximum allowed failure (failed_request_count / total_request_count)
ratio is 0.6.
The MaxRequests allowed during the half-open state is 3.
The timeout value needed for state transition from open to half-open is 4 seconds.
Print a log statement whenever the state changes.
To implement these requirements, we can simply initialize *gobreaker.CircuitBreaker
with configurations and wrap a random function to simulate circuit breaker behavior.
This random function generates a random number between 10 and 30, and if the gen-
erated number is 25, it also returns an error. This error increases the failure count in
the circuit breaker, which causes the state to change from closed to open.
package main
import (
    "errors"
    "github.com/sony/gobreaker"
    "log"
    "math/rand"
)
var cb *gobreaker.CircuitBreaker
func main() {
Listing 6.4
Circuit breaker for simple function
