64
CHAPTER 3
Data types
c := 1.0002
fmt.Println(a * (b + c))
fmt.Println(a*b + a*c)
200030.00200030004
200030.0020003
The exact result is 200,030.002. Hence, the first calculation has the worst accuracy.
Indeed, when performing floating-point calculations involving addition, subtraction,
multiplication, or division, we have to complete the multiplication and division opera-
tions first to get better accuracy. Sometimes, this may impact the execution time (in
the previous example, it requires three operations instead of two). In that case, it’s a
choice between accuracy and execution time.
 Go’s float32 and float64 are approximations. Because of that, we have to bear a
few rules in mind:
When comparing two floating-point numbers, check that their difference is
within an acceptable range.
When performing additions or subtractions, group operations with a similar
order of magnitude for better accuracy.
To favor accuracy, if a sequence of operations requires addition, subtraction,
multiplication, or division, perform the multiplication and division operations
first.
The following section begins our examination of slices. It discusses two crucial con-
cepts: a slice’s length and capacity. 
3.4
#20: Not understanding slice length and capacity
It’s pretty common for Go developers to mix slice length and capacity or not under-
stand them thoroughly. Assimilating these two concepts is essential for efficiently han-
dling core operations such as slice initialization and adding elements with append,
copying, or slicing. This misunderstanding can lead to using slices suboptimally or
even to memory leaks (as we will see in later sections).
 In Go, a slice is backed by an array. That means the slice’s data is stored contigu-
ously in an array data structure. A slice also handles the logic of adding an element if
the backing array is full or shrinking the backing array if it’s almost empty.
 Internally, a slice holds a pointer to the backing array plus a length and a capacity.
The length is the number of elements the slice contains, whereas the capacity is the
number of elements in the backing array. Let’s go through a few examples to make
things clearer. First, let’s initialize a slice with a given length and capacity:
s := make([]int, 3, 6)
Three-length, 
six-capacity slice
