86
CHAPTER 3
Data types
Regarding reads, updates, and deletes, Go must calculate the corresponding array
index. Then Go iterates sequentially over all the keys until it finds the provided one.
Therefore, the worst-case time complexity for these three operations is O(p), where p
is the total number of elements in the buckets (one bucket by default, multiple buck-
ets in case of overflows).
 Let’s now discuss why initializing a map efficiently is important.
3.11.2 Initialization
To understand the problems related to inefficient map initialization, let’s create a
map[string]int type containing three elements:
m := map[string]int{
"1": 1,
"2": 2,
"3": 3,
}
Internally, this map is backed by an array consisting of a single entry: hence, a single
bucket. What happens if we add 1 million elements? In this case, a single entry won’t
be enough because finding a key would mean, in the worst case, going over thousands
of buckets. This is why a map should be able to grow automatically to cope with the
number of elements.
 When a map grows, it doubles its number of buckets. What are the conditions for a
map to grow?
The average number of items in the buckets (called the load factor) is greater
than a constant value. This constant equals 6.5 (but it may change in future ver-
sions because it’s internal to Go).
Too many buckets have overflowed (containing more than eight elements).
When a map grows, all the keys are dispatched again to all the buckets. This is why, in
the worst-case scenario, inserting a key can be an O(n) operation, with n being the
total number of elements in the map.
 We saw that when using slices, if we knew up front the number of elements to be
added to the slice, we could initialize it with a given size or capacity. This avoids having
to keep repeating the costly slice growth operation. The idea is similar for maps.
Indeed, we can use the make built-in function to provide an initial size when creating a
map. For example, if we want to initialize a map that will contain 1 million elements, it
can be done this way:
m := make(map[string]int, 1_000_000)
With a map, we can give the built-in function make only an initial size and not a capac-
ity, as with slices: hence, a single argument.
 By specifying a size, we provide a hint about the number of elements expected to
go into the map. Internally, the map is created with an appropriate number of buckets
