224
CHAPTER 9
Leveraging Go concurrency
 A concept that’s similar but distinctly different is parallelism. It’s easy to get con-
fused because in both cases multiple tasks can be running at the same time. In concur-
rency, the tasks don’t necessarily need to start or end together—their execution
overlaps. These tasks are scheduled and often (though not necessarily) communicate
to share data as well as coordinate the execution times. 
 In parallelism, tasks start and are executed at the same time. Usually a larger prob-
lem is split into smaller chunks and processed simultaneously to improve perfor-
mance. Parallelism usually requires independent resources (for example, CPUs);
concurrency uses and shares the same resources. Intuitively, parallelism is easier to
understand because we’re talking about starting and doing multiple tasks at the same
time. Parallelism is what the name indicates—parallel lines of processing that don’t
overlap.
Concurrency is about dealing with lots of things at once. Parallelism is about doing lots
of things at once.
—Rob Pike, co-creator of Go 
Another way to think of concurrency is by visualizing two checkout lanes at the super-
market, lining up for just one checkout counter (figure 9.1). A person from each lane
takes a turn to pay for their purchases.
With parallelism, we have the same two lanes, but now the customers are  queuing up
for two checkout counters, separately (figure 9.2). 
 Although these concepts aren’t the same, it doesn’t mean that they’re mutually
exclusive. Go can be used to create concurrent and parallel programs. Parallel pro-
grams that have to run tasks at the same time will need the environment variable GOMAX-
PROCS to be set to more than 1. Prior to Go 1.5, GOMAXPROCS was set to 1 by default. Since
Go 1.5, GOMAXPROCS is set to the number of CPUs available in the system. Concurrent
programs can run within a single CPU and tasks scheduled to run independently. You’ll
Figure 9.1
Concurrency—two lines, one checkout counter
