240
CHAPTER 9
Leveraging Go concurrency
The variable value will be assigned the value from the channel a, whereas ok1 is a
Boolean that indicates whether the channel is still open. If the channel is closed, ok1
will be false. 
 One final note on closing channels: it’s perfectly all right not to close them. As
mentioned earlier, closing channels just means telling the receiver that nothing else is
coming through. In the following code, you now know whether the channel is closed.
If it is, you no longer print anything. This is what you’ll get as the result:
Hello World! from A
Hola Mundo! from B
9.4
Concurrency for web applications
So far we’ve been discussing Go concurrency in a standalone program. Whatever
works as a standalone program will obviously work in a web application as well. In this
section you’ll switch over to a web application and learn how concurrency can be used
to improve Go web applications. You’ll encounter some of the basic techniques shown
in the previous sections, as well as other concurrency patterns in a more practical web
application.
 You’ll create a photo mosaic-generating web application. A photo mosaic is a picture
(usually a photograph) that has been divided into (usually equal-sized) rectangular
sections, each of which is replaced with another picture (called a tile picture). If you
view it from far away or if you squint at it, then the original picture can be seen. If you
look closer, you’ll see that the picture is made up of many hundreds or even thou-
sands of smaller tile pictures.
 The basic idea is simple: the web application allows a user to upload a target picture,
which will be used to create a photo mosaic. To make things simple, let’s assume that
tile pictures are already available and are correctly sized.
9.4.1
Creating the photo mosaic
Let’s start with the photo mosaic algorithm. The steps can be followed without the use
of any third-party libraries.
1
Build a tile database, a hash of tile pictures, by scanning a directory of pictures
and then using the filename as the key and the average color of the picture as
the value. The average color is a 3-tuple calculated from getting the red, green,
and blue (RGB) of every pixel and adding up all the reds, greens, and blues,
and then dividing by the total number of pixels.
2
Cut the target picture into smaller pictures of the correct tile size.
3
For every tile-sized piece of the target picture, assume the average color to be
the color of the top-left pixel of that piece.
4
Find the corresponding tile in the tile database that’s the nearest match to the
average color of the piece of the target picture, and place that tile in the corre-
sponding position in the photo mosaic. To find the nearest match, calculate the
