69
5.2
Depending on a module and implementing ports and adapters
The primary motivation for creating a payment client is fulfilling the Order service’s
goal: charge customers when they try to place an order. Now that we have seen a quick
summary of how the Order service will use a payment client, let’s look at the imple-
mentation details of integrating the Payment service into the Order service.
5.2.1
Payment port
As discussed in chapter 4, a port is an interface that contains contracts about a busi-
ness model in hexagonal architecture. When we say “port,” we mean the contract of a
payment operation or a Go interface that contains payment-related function signa-
tures, not the concrete implementation of a specific payment strategy. The main
expectation from the payment port is adding the capability of inserting a payment
step within the Order creation flow. This way, the Order service will never depend on
a concrete implementation but on an interface. Because the Order service uses this
payment port, this is located on the driven side of hexagonal architecture, as shown in
figure 5.4. 
5.2.2
Payment adapter
There can be multiple implementations of payment ports, called adapters. If your
adapter implementation is suitable for a payment port contract and contains identical
function signatures with the port interface, you can easily plug that adapter into the
payment port. This is done by dependency injection: you have the actual implementa-
tion of the payment port, and you simply initialize and add it to the Order domain
model during application initialization to call it during the payment step.
 We should have a payment port and adapter in the Order service to interact with
the Payment service, as shown in figure 5.5. If we clearly state those components in the
hexagon, the picture and design of the Order service based on those components are
more visible.
Order
service
Payment
service
Pending
Order
database
Order
database
Success
User
Figure 5.4
Place order flow and 
Payment service interaction
