75
5.3
Error handling
    if paymentErr != nil { 
        return domain.Order{}, paymentErr
    }
    return order, nil
}
Now that we understand how to call the Payment service within the gRPC endpoint,
let’s look at how we can handle errors to decide on the next step of retrying or mark-
ing the operation as failed. As you can see, we call the Payment service, and for a spe-
cific reason: it may return an error. In the example, we return that error to the client
side directly, but it is better to differentiate errors to take different actions on the cli-
ent side.
5.3
Error handling
Thus far, we have assumed that everything went well during service-to-service commu-
nication, which means the server returned an OK status message to the client. However,
in real-life applications, there can be problems during service communication, and you
need to understand what happened in these cases. If an error occurs, gRPC returns two
basic pieces of information: a status code and an optional error message that explains the
problem in detail. Let’s look at some of the status codes and their use cases.
5.3.1
Status codes
gRPC uses predefined status codes within the RPC protocol that are understood
among different languages. For example, for successful operations, gRPC returns an
OK status code. All the remaining codes are about unsuccessful use cases:

CANCELLED—In this use case, the client calls the server, and for a specific reason,
it cancels the request. For example, you call multiple services, and for which-
ever returns first, you use that data and cancel the other requests.

INVALID_ARGUMENT—This status code is caused by the caller in that it provides
invalid input, and the server complains about that. For example, the server will
return this status code if you provide an empty order ID during payment creation.

DEADLINE_EXCEEDED—This status code shows that the deadline expired before the
actual operation could complete. For example, say you configure your client to
have a deadline of 5 seconds. If you call an endpoint with this client and it takes
6 seconds to complete, you will see it will get DEADLINE_EXCEEDED after 5 seconds
before the actual operation finishes.

NOT_FOUND—This status code states that a resource is not found. For example,
you want to get order details by ID, but you get NOT_FOUND since there is no order
with that ID.

ALREADY_EXISTS—This status code is for preventing resource duplication. For
example, if you try creating a user with an existing email address, the server will
return this status code.
