66
CHAPTER 5
Interservice communication
allow us to retry operations based on the response status or error type we get from the
gRPC response. Let’s look at an example to better understand how communication works
and how we can handle error cases to have a better failover strategy.
5.1
gRPC service-to-service communication
In a distributed microservice architecture, a service may have multiple identical back-
ends to handle a certain consumer load. Those backends have a discrete capacity, and
loads from clients are distributed using load balancers. For example, saying “Call Pay-
ment service from Order service” does not mean we connect an endpoint that contains
just one instance. This type of connection is called server-side load balancing: the client
connects to a single endpoint, and that endpoint proxies requests to backend instances.
Alternatively, the client may want to be able to connect multiple backends explicitly for
the Payment service. This type of connection is called client-side load balancing.
 We will use Kubernetes in upcoming chapters to handle our microservices in a
containerization environment. Kubernetes provides an out-of-the-box solution for ser-
vice communication, and we will use server-side load balancing. Now that we under-
stand the initial concepts of client- and server-side load balancing, let’s take a detailed
look at the characteristics of these strategies.
5.1.1
Server-side load balancing
In server-side load balancing, the client makes an RPC call to a load balancer (or
proxy). The load balancer distributes the RPC call to one of the available application
instances (e.g., the Payment service), as shown in figure 5.2. The load balancer also
tracks the load status of each instance to distribute the load fairly. The client applica-
tion is not aware of actual backend instances for server-side load balancing.
 
 
 
 
 
The Order service calls a local 
stub, and then that stub marshals 
the request and sends it across 
gRPC connection.
Order service
The response is unmarshalled
to the response object.
Payment gRPC stub
Payment
service
Figure 5.1
The Order service uses a Payment service gRPC stub.
