2
CHAPTER 1
Go: Simple to learn but hard to master
 This chapter presents a quick refresher as to why Go has become mainstream over
the years. We’ll discuss why, despite Go being considered simple to learn, mastering its
nuances can be challenging. Finally, we’ll introduce the concepts this book covers.
1.1
Go outline
If you are reading this book, it’s likely that you’re already sold on Go. Therefore, this
section provides a brief reminder about what makes Go such a powerful language.
 Software engineering has evolved considerably during the past decades. Most mod-
ern systems are no longer written by a single person but by teams consisting of multi-
ple programmers—sometimes even hundreds, if not thousands. Nowadays, code must
be readable, expressive, and maintainable to guarantee a system’s durability over the
years. Meanwhile, in our fast-moving world, maximizing agility and reducing the time
to market is critical for most organizations. Programming should also follow this
trend, and companies strive to ensure that software engineers are as productive as pos-
sible when reading, writing, and maintaining code.
 In response to these challenges, Google created the Go programming language in
2007. Since then, many organizations have adopted the language to support various
use cases: APIs, automation, databases, CLIs (command-line interfaces), and so on.
Many today consider Go the language of the cloud.
 Feature-wise, Go has no type inheritance, no exceptions, no macros, no partial
functions, no support for lazy variable evaluation or immutability, no operator over-
loading, no pattern matching, and on and on. Why are these features missing from
the language? The official Go FAQ (https://go.dev/doc/faq) gives us some insight:
Why does Go not have feature X? Your favorite feature may be missing because it doesn’t
fit, because it affects compilation speed or clarity of design, or because it would make the
fundamental system model too difficult.
Judging the quality of a programming language via its number of features is probably
not an accurate metric. At least, it’s not an objective of Go. Instead, Go utilizes a few
essential characteristics when adopting a language at scale for an organization. These
include the following:
Stability—Even though Go receives frequent updates (including improvements
and security patches), it remains a stable language. Some may even consider
this one of the best features of the language.
Expressivity—We can define expressivity in a programming language by how nat-
urally and intuitively we can write and read code. A reduced number of key-
words and limited ways to solve common problems make Go an expressive
language for large codebases.
Compilation—As developers, what can be more exasperating than having to wait
for a build to test our application? Targeting fast compilation times has always
been a conscious goal for the language designers. This, in turn, enables
productivity.
