Style and Error Handling
49
something else in mind, and many people have come to embrace short variable names. From a page
containing advice on reviewing Go code¹⁵:
“Variable names in Go should be short rather than long. This is especially true for local variables
with limited scope. Prefer c to lineCount. Prefer i to sliceIndex.”
Shorter variable names make control flow easier to follow, and allow the reader of the code to focus
on the important logic, such as the functions being called. A general rule of thumb is, if a variable
spans less than 10 lines, use a single character. If it spans more, use a descriptive name. At the
same time, try to minimize variable span, and functions shorter than 15 lines. Most of the time, this
produces readable, idiomatic Go code.
Golint
golint is a linter for Go, and it differs from gofmt in that it prints style mistakes, whereas gofmt
reformats your code. To install golint, run:
go get -u github.com/golang/lint/golint
As with gofmt, you can’t tell golint to ignore certain errors. However, golint is not meant to be used
as a standard, and will sometimes have false positives and false negatives. On Go Report Card we’ve
noticed a lot of repositories with golint errors like the following:
Line 29: warning: exported type Entry should have comment or be unexported (golint)
This is just suggesting that an exported type should have a comment, otherwise it should be
unexported. This is nice for godoc, which displays the type’s comment right below it. You might
also see a warning like this:
Line 5: warning: if block ends with a return statement, so drop this else and outdent its block
(golint)
Here’s a piece of code where that warning would show up when running golint:
1
func truncate(s, suf string, l int) string {
2
if len(s) < l {
3
return s
4
} else {
5
return s[:l] + suf
6
}
7
}
What golint is saying here is that because we return on line 3, there’s no need for the else on the
following line. Thus our code can become:
¹⁵https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/CodeReviewComments#variable-names
