138
CHAPTER 6
Storing data
 Also, sql.DB doesn’t needed to be closed (you can do so if you like); it’s simply a
handle and not the actual connection. Remember that this abstraction contains a
pool of database connections and will maintain them. In our example, you’ll be using
the globally defined Db variable from our various CRUD methods and functions, but
an alternative is to pass the sql.DB struct around once you’ve created it.
 So far we’ve discussed the Open function, which returns a sql.DB struct given the
database driver name and a data source name. How do you get the database driver?
The normal way that you’d register a database driver involves using the Register
function, with the name of the database driver, and a struct that implements the
driver.Driver interface like this:
sql.Register("postgres", &drv{})
In this example, postgres is the name of the driver and drv is a struct that imple-
ments the Driver interface. You’ll notice that we didn’t do this earlier. Why not? 
 The Postgres driver we used (a third-party driver) registered itself when we
imported the driver, that’s why. 
import (
    "fmt"
    "database/sql"
    _ "github.com/lib/pq"
)
The github.com/lib/pq package you imported is the Postgres driver, and when it’s
imported, its init function will kick in and register itself. Go doesn’t provide any offi-
cial database drivers; all database drivers are third-party libraries that should conform
to the interfaces defined in the sql.driver package. Notice that when you import the
database driver, you set the name of the package to be an underscore (_). This is
because you shouldn’t use the database driver directly; you should use database/sql
only. This way, if you upgrade the version of the driver or change the implementation
of the driver, you don’t need to make changes to all your code.
 To install this driver, run this command on the console:
go get "github.com/lib/pq"
This command will fetch the code from the repository and place it in the package
repository, and then compile it along with your other code.
6.3.3
Creating a post
With the initial database setup done, let’s start creating our first record in the data-
base. In this example, you’ll the same Post struct you’ve used in the previous few sec-
tions. Instead of storing to memory or file, you’ll be storing and retrieving the same
information from a Postgres database.
 In our sample application, you’ll use various functions to perform create, retrieve,
update, and delete the data. In this section, you’ll learn how to create posts using the
