39
TECHNIQUE 3
Using configuration files
Whereas the preceding section talked about passing in configuration via command-
line options, this section looks at passing in configuration via files, or in the case of
12-factor apps, using environment variables. In this section, we add support for com-
mon configuration formats, including JSON, YAML, and INI. Then we present the
approach favored in the 12-factor pattern, which passes in configuration through
environment variables.
TECHNIQUE 3
Using configuration files
Command-line arguments, like those in the preceding section, are good for many
things. But when it comes to one-time configuration of a program installed into a par-
ticular environment, command-line arguments aren’t the right fit. The most common
solution is to store configuration data in a file that the program can load at startup.
 In the next few sections, you’ll look at the three most popular configuration file
formats and how to work with them in Go.
PROBLEM
A program requires configuration above and beyond that which you can provide with
a few command-line arguments. And it would be great to use a standard file format.
SOLUTION
One of today’s most popular configuration file formats is JavaScript Object Notation
(JSON). The Go standard library provides JSON parsing and handling. It should be no
surprise that JSON configuration files are common.
DISCUSSION
Consider the JSON file config.json with the following:
{
     "enabled": true,
     "path": "/usr/local"
}
The following listing showcases a JSON configuration parser.
Ansible, Chef, and Puppet
Ansible, Chef, and Puppet are popular ops platforms for managing computers and
their configurations. They’re commonly used to manage the software installed on
clusters of servers and the configuration needed for the applications running in them.
For example, take an application connected to a database. The database could be
on the same server, a different server, or a cluster of servers. The ops platform would
manage the installation and configuration, providing the right connection information
to the application.
