48
CHAPTER 2
A solid foundation
func listenForShutdown(ch <-chan os.Signal) {
     <-ch
     manners.Close()
}
The main function begins by getting an instance of a handler function capable of
responding to web requests B. This handler is a simple Hello World responder E. In
its place, a more complex one handling routing rules, such as the path or regular
expression handlers covered later in the chapter, could be used.
 To gracefully shut down, you need to know when to do so. The signal package
provides a means to get signals from the operating system, including signals to inter-
rupt or kill the application. The next step is to set up a channel that receives interrupt
and kill signals from the operating system so the code can react to them C. Listen-
AndServe, like its counterpart in the http package, blocks execution. To monitor sig-
nals, a goroutine needs to run concurrently. The function listenForShutdown waits
until it receives a signal on the channel F. After a signal comes in, it sends a message
to Shutdown on the server. This tells the server to stop accepting new connections and
shut down after all the current requests are completed.
 Calling ListenAndServe in the same manner as the http package D starts the
server.
TIP
The server waits only for request handlers to finish before exiting. If
your code has separate goroutines that need to be waited on, that would need
to happen separately, using your own implementation of WaitGroup.
This approach has several advantages, including the following:
Allows current HTTP requests to complete rather than stopping them mid-
request.
Stops listening on the TCP port while completing the existing requests. This
opens the opportunity for another application to bind to the same port and
start serving requests. If you’re updating versions of an application, one version
could shut down while completing its requests, and another version of the
application could come online and start serving.
A couple of disadvantages also exist under some conditions:
The manners package works for HTTP connections rather than all TCP connec-
tions. If your application isn’t a web server, the manners package won’t work.
In some cases, one version of an application will want to hand off exiting socket
connections currently in use to another instance of the same application or
another application. For example, if you have long-running socket connections
between a server and client applications, the manners package will attempt to
wait or interrupt the connections rather than hand them off.
Waits for 
shutdown signal 
and reacts
F
