57
TECHNIQUE 9
Faster routing (without the work)
likely want to have tests to make sure your regular expressions are matching the
proper paths.
TECHNIQUE 9
Faster routing (without the work)
One criticism of Go’s built-in http package is that its routing and multiplexing (mux-
ing) is basic. In the previous sections, we showed some straightforward ways of work-
ing with the http package, but depending on your needs, you may not be satisfied
with the configurability, performance, or capabilities of the built-in HTTP server. Or
you may just want to avoid writing boilerplate routing code.
PROBLEM
The built-in http package isn’t flexible enough, or doesn’t perform well in a particu-
lar use case.
SOLUTION
Routing URLs to functions is a common problem for web applications. Therefore,
numerous packages have been built and tested, and are commonly used to tackle the
problem of routing. A common technique is to import an existing request router and
use it within your application.
 Popular solutions include the following:

github.com/julienschmidt/httprouter is considered a fast routing package
with a focus on using a minimal amount of memory and taking as little time
as possible to handle routing. It has features such as the ability to have case-
insensitive paths, cleaning up /../ in a path, and dealing with an optional
trailing /.

github.com/gorilla/mux is part of the Gorilla web toolkit. This loose collec-
tion of packages provides components you can use in an application. The mux
package provides a versatile set of criteria to perform matching against, includ-
ing host, schemes, HTTP headers, and more.

github.com/bmizerany/pat provides a router inspired by the routing in Sina-
tra. The registered paths are easy to read and can contain named parameters
such as /user/:name. It has inspired other packages such as github.com/
gorilla/pat.
Each package has a different feature set and API. Numerous other routing packages
exist as well. With a little investigation, you can easily find a quality third-party package
that meets your needs.
Sinatra web application library
Sinatra is an open source web application framework written in Ruby. This framework
has been used by numerous organizations and has inspired well over 50 comparable
frameworks in many other languages, including several in Go.
