43
TECHNIQUE 4
Configuration via environment variables
TECHNIQUE 4
Configuration via environment variables
The venerable configuration file certainly provides a great vehicle for passing configu-
ration data to programs. But some of today’s emerging environments defy some of the
assumptions we make when using traditional configuration files. Sometimes the one
configuring the application won’t have access to the filesystem at the level we assume.
Some systems treat configuration files as part of the source codebase (and thus as
static pieces of an executable). This removes some of the utility of configuration files.
 Nowhere is this trend clearer than in the emerging PaaS cloud services. Deploying
into these systems is usually accomplished by pushing a source-code bundle to a con-
trol server (like a Git push). But the only runtime configuration you get on such serv-
ers is done with environment variables. Let’s take a look at a technique for working in
such an environment.
PROBLEM
Many PaaS systems don’t provide a way to specify per-instance configuration files. Con-
figuration opportunities are limited to a small number of environmental controls,
such as environment variables.
SOLUTION
Twelve-factor apps, commonly deployed to Heroku, Cloud Foundry, Deis, and other
PaaS or container cluster managers (covered in chapter 11), are becoming more com-
mon. One of the factors of a twelve-factor app is storing the configuration in the envi-
ronment. This provides a way to have a different configuration for each environment
an application runs in. 
Twelve-factor apps
This popular and widely used methodology for building web applications, software as
a service, and similar applications uses the following 12 factors:
1
Use a single codebase, tracked in revision control, that can be deployed mul-
tiple times.
2
Explicitly declare dependencies and isolate them from other applications.
3
Store application configuration in the environment.
4
Attach supporting services.
5
Separate the build and run stages.
6
Execute the application as one or more stateless processes.
7
Export services via TCP port binding.
8
Scale horizontally by adding processes.
9
Maximize robust applications with fast startup and graceful shutdown.
10 Keep development, staging, and production as similar as possible.
11 Handle logs as event streams.
12 Run admin tasks as separate processes.
More details can be found on these factors at http://12factor.net.
