41
TECHNIQUE 3
Using configuration files
SOLUTION
YAML, a recursive acronym meaning YAML Ain’t Markup Language, is a human-readable
data serialization format. YAML is easy to read, can contain comments, and is fairly easy
to work with. Using YAML for application configuration is common and a method we,
the authors, recommend and practice. Although Go doesn’t ship with a YAML proces-
sor, several third-party libraries are readily available. You’ll look at one here.
DISCUSSION
Consider this simple YAML configuration file:
# A comment line
enabled: true
path: /usr/local
The following listing is an example of parsing and printing configuration from a
YAML file.
package main
import (
     "fmt"
     "github.com/kylelemons/go-gypsy/yaml"
)
func main() {
     config, err := yaml.ReadFile("conf.yaml")
if err != nil {
            fmt.Println(err)
     }
     fmt.Println(config.Get("path"))
     fmt.Println(config.GetBool("enabled"))
}
To work with YAML files and content, this listing imports the github.com/kylelemons/
go-gypsy/yaml package B. This package, which we’ve used and recommend, provides
features to read YAML as a string or from a file C, deal with different types, and turn
configuration into YAML output.
 Using the function ReadFile, the configuration file is read in and returns a File
struct from the yaml package. This struct provides access to the data in the YAML file.
Using the Get method, the value of a string can be obtained D. For other types, such
as a Boolean, you can use methods such as GetBool. Each type has its own method to
ensure proper handling and return type.
SOLUTION
INI files are a format in wide use and have been around for decades. This is another
format your Go applications can potentially use. Although the Go developers didn’t
include a processor in the language, once again libraries are readily available to meet
your needs.
Listing 2.10
Parsing a YAML configuration file: yaml_config.go
Imports a third-party YAML 
B
Reads a YAML file into 
a struct parser
C
Prints the values 
from the YAML file
D
