31
TECHNIQUE 1
GNU/UNIX-style command-line arguments
TECHNIQUE 1
GNU/UNIX-style command-line arguments
Although the built-in flag package is useful and provides the basics, it doesn’t provide
flags in the manner most of us have come to expect. The difference in user interac-
tion between the style used in Plan 9 and the style in Linux- and BSD-based systems is
enough to cause users to stop and think. This is often due to problems they’ll encoun-
ter when trying to mix short flags, such as those used when executing a command like
ls -la.
PROBLEM
Those of us who write for non-Windows systems will likely be working with a UNIX
variant, and our users will expect UNIX-style flag processing. How do you write Go
command-line tools that meet users’ expectations? Ideally, you want to do this with-
out writing one-off specialized flag processing.
SOLUTION
This common problem has been solved in a couple of ways. Some applications, such
as Docker, the software container management system, have a subpackage containing
code to handle Linux-style flags. In some cases, these are forks of the Go flag pack-
age, in which the extra needs are added in. But maintaining per-project implementa-
tions of argument parsing results is an awful lot of duplicated effort to repeatedly
solve the same generic problem.
 The better approach is to use an existing library. You can import several stand-
alone packages into your own application. Many are based on the flag package pro-
vided by the standard library and have compatible or similar interfaces. Importing
one of these packages and using it is faster than altering the flag package and main-
taining the difference.
DISCUSSION
In the following examples, you’ll see two packages with slightly different approaches.
The first attempts to keep API compatibility with the Go flag package, whereas the
second breaks from it.
GNUFLAG
Similar to the flag package, the launchpad.net/gnuflag package brings GNU-style
(Linux) flags to Go. Don’t let the name fool you. The license isn’t the GPL license, typ-
ical of GNU-based programs and libraries, but rather a BSD-style license in line with
the Go license.
 Several forms of flags are supported when using gnuflag, including these:

-f for a single-letter or short flag

-fg for a group of single-letter flags

--flag for a multiletter or long flag name

--flag x for a long flag with a value passed in as x

-f x or -fx for a short flag with a passed-in value
