44
CHAPTER 2
A solid foundation
DISCUSSION
Consider, for example, the environment variable PORT containing the port a web
server should listen to. The following listing retrieves this piece of configuration and
uses it when starting a web server.
 
package main
import (
     "fmt"
     "net/http"
     "os"
)
func main() {
     http.HandleFunc("/", homePage)
     http.ListenAndServe(":"+os.Getenv("PORT"), nil)
}
func homePage(res http.ResponseWriter, req *http.Request) {
     if req.URL.Path != "/" {
            http.NotFound(res, req)
            return
     }
     fmt.Fprint(res, "The homepage.")
}
This example uses the http package from the standard library. You may remember it
from the simple Hello World web server in listing 1.16. In the following section, we
cover more on web servers.
 Retrieving configuration from the environment is fairly straightforward. From the
os package, the Getenv function retrieves the value as a string B. When no environ-
ment variable is found, an empty string is returned. If you need to convert the string
to another type, you can use the strconv package. For example, if the PORT in this
example needed to be an integer, you could use the ParseInt function.
WARNING
Be careful with the information in environment variables and the
processes able to obtain the information in them. For example, a third-party
subprocess started by your application could have access to the environment
variables.
2.3
Working with real-world web servers
Although the Go standard library provides a great foundation for building web serv-
ers, it has some options you may want to change and some tolerance you may want to
add. Two common areas, which we cover in this section, are matching URL paths to
callback functions and starting and stopping servers with an interest in gracefully shut-
ting down.
 Web servers are a core feature of the http package. This package uses the founda-
tion for handling TCP connections from the net package. Because web servers are a
Listing 2.12
Environment variable–based configuration: env_config.go
Retrieves the PORT 
from the environment
B
