33
TECHNIQUE 2
Avoiding CLI boilerplate code
     flags "github.com/jessevdk/go-flags"
)
var opts struct {
     Name    string `short:"n" long:"name" default:"World" 
➥description:"A name to say hello to."`
                 Spanish bool   `short:"s" long:"spanish"
     ➥description:"Use Spanish Language"` 
}
func main() {
     flags.Parse(&opts)
     if opts.Spanish == true {
            fmt.Printf("Hola %s!\n", opts.Name)          
     } else {
            fmt.Printf("Hello %s!\n", opts.Name)
     }
}
The first big difference you’ll notice from previous techniques is how flags are
defined. In this instance, they’re defined as properties on a struct B. The property
names provide access to the values in your application. Information about a flag, such
as short name, long name, default value, and description, are gathered using reflec-
tion to parse the space-separated key-value pairs following a property on a struct. This
key-value-pair parsing capability is provided by the reflect package in the standard
library. For example, opts.Name is mapped to a flag that has a short name -n, a long
name --name, a default value of World, and a description used for help text.
 For the values to be available on the opts struct, the Parse function needs to be
called with the opts struct passed in C. After that, the properties on the struct can be
called normally with flag values or their defaults available D.
2.1.2
Command-line frameworks
Processing flags certainly isn’t the only important part of building a command-line
application. Although Go developers learn as a matter of course how to begin with a
main function and write a basic program, we often find ourselves writing the same set
of features for each new command-line program we write. Fortunately, tools can pro-
vide a better entry point for creating command-line programs, and you’ll look at one
of those in this section.
TECHNIQUE 2
Avoiding CLI boilerplate code
You know the drill: You need a quick command-line tool for doing some light process-
ing. You start from scratch and build that same old, bare-minimum boilerplate code.
And it works. Unfortunately, it works well enough that you soon find yourself writing a
more advanced version. This one has new options. But to add these new features, you
refactor the boilerplate code into something just flexible enough to get the new job
done. And the cycle repeats.
Imports go-flags aliased 
to the name flags
Struct containing 
the defined flags
B
Parses the flag values 
into the struct
C
Properties on opts 
used with flag values
D
