38
CHAPTER 2
A solid foundation
                           }
                           for i := start; i >= 0; i-- {
                                  fmt.Println(i)
                           }
                           return nil
                   },
            },
     }
     app.Run(os.Args)
}
Instead of defining the Action, a slice of cli.Command is defined on the Commands
property with details about each command B. Action, by default, will be set to show
the help screen. That way, if no commands are used with the application, help will be
displayed. Each command has a Name and Action along with optional Flags, Usage,
and ShortName. Just as the base application can have a Commands property with a list of
commands, each command can have a Commands property with a list of subcommands
to that command.
 Flags defined on a command are similar to those defined globally. The pattern of
definition is the same with the Name and Usage, and in some cases, a default Value.
Global options, as shown in figure 2.2, are available to every command and come
before the command itself. Command-specific options, defined on the command C,
are placed after the command. Additionally, retrieving them is done from cli
.Context by using a function such as String, Int, or Bool D. Global flags are similar
but have Global prepended to them.
 We started off this section by showing how Go command-line programs differ from
the UNIX norm. First we presented command-line flags. We introduced libraries that
provide UNIX-style command-line flags. Then we introduced a higher-level issue: how
do you quickly and repeatedly build command-line applications without rewriting the
same old boilerplate code? You looked at a fantastic library for that. Now you’re ready
to explore a topic relevant to almost all programs: configuration.
2.2
Handling configuration
A second foundational area that complements flag handling is persistent application
configuration. Examples of this form of configuration include the files in the etc
directory on some Linux installations and user-specific configuration files such as
.gitconfig or .bashrc files. 
 Passing configuration to an application is a common need. Virtually every applica-
tion, including console applications and servers, can benefit from persistent configu-
ration. Operation toolchains such as Ansible, Chef, and Puppet have quite a bit of
functionality for managing configuration in a distributed manner. How can configura-
tion information be easily passed into and made available in your applications?
 
