Scaffolding a Go Microservice
52
    }
}
At this point, we have the logic for all three services. Note that we used static service addresses, 
localhost:8081, localhost:8082, and localhost:8083, in this example. This allows 
you to run the services locally; however, this would not work if we deployed our services to the cloud 
or any other deployment platform. In the next chapter, we are going to cover this aspect and continue 
improving our microservices. You can run the services we just created by executing this command 
inside the cmd directory of each service:
go run *.go
Then, you can call the metadata service API using the following command:
curl localhost:8081?id=1
You can call the rating service API using a similar command:
curl localhost:8082?id=1&type=2
Finally, you can call the movie service using the following command:
curl localhost:8083?id=1
All of the preceding requests should return an HTTP 404 error, indicating that records are not 
found—we do not have any data yet, so this is expected.
At this point, we have illustrated how to bootstrap and manually test our example microservices and 
are ready to move on to the next chapter.
Summary
In this section, we have covered lots of topics, including the most important recommendations for 
writing Go applications and the standards for the project layout of Go applications. The knowledge 
we gained helped us during the code scaffolding of our microservices—we have tried to implement 
our microservice code in an idiomatic way as much as possible.
You have also learned how to split each of your microservices into multiple layers, each responsible 
for its own logic. We have illustrated how to separate the business logic from the code accessing the 
database, and how to separate the API handler logic from both, as well as from the logic performing 
remote calls between the services.
While the amount of information in this chapter is quite overwhelming, we have made a solid start 
and are ready to move on to more advanced topics. In the next chapter, we are going to see how the 
microservices we created can explore each other, so we can finally test them.
