Scaffolding an example application
25
Why did we end up with three services here? We did this for the following reasons:
•	 The movie metadata service would be solely responsible for accessing the movie metadata records.
•	 The movie service would provide the client-facing API, aggregating two separate types of 
records—movie metadata and ratings. The records would be stored in two separate systems, 
so this component would join them together and return to the caller.
•	 If we introduce any other types of records in the system, such as likes, reviews, and 
recommendations, we will plug them into the movie service, not the movie metadata service. 
The movie metadata service would be used solely for accessing the static movie metadata, not 
any other types of records.
•	 Movie metadata services can potentially evolve in the future by getting more metadata-related 
functionality, such as editing or adding descriptions in different languages. This also hints that 
it is better to keep this component solely for the metadata-related features.
Let’s illustrate these services in a diagram:
Figure 2.1 – Movie application services
Now, as we have definitions of the three microservices, let’s finally proceed to the coding part.
Application code structure
Let’s align on how are we going to structure the code of all microservices in relation to each other. I 
would suggest storing them inside a single directory, which would be our application root. Create a new 
directory (you may call it movieapp), and inside it, create the following directories for our microservices:
•	 rating
•	 metadata
•	 movie
Throughout the book, I will use the directory paths relative to the application directory you’ve created, 
so when you see a directory or filename, assume it is stored in the app directory you chose for this.
From the Project structure section, we know that the logic containing the main function generally 
resides in the cmd directory. We will use this approach in our microservices—for example, the main 
file for the rating service would be called rating/cmd/main.go.
