Scaffolding an example application
21
•	 doc.go: Package documentation (a separate file is not necessary for small packages)
•	 *_test.go: Test files
•	 README.md: A read-me file written in the Markdown language
•	 LICENSE: A license file, if there is one
•	 CONTRIBUTING.md/CONTRIBUTORS/AUTHORS: List of contributors and/or authors
Now, let’s cover the best practices for organizing the code base for Go applications.
Best practices
In this section, you can find a list of best practices for organizing the Go application project structure. 
It is going to help you to keep your code aligned with thousands of other Go packages and keep it 
conventional and idiomatic. The best practices of Go project organization include the following:
•	 Separate private code using an internal directory.
•	 Get familiar with the way popular open source Go projects, such as https://github.
com/kubernetes/kubernetes, are organized. This can provide you with great examples 
of how to structure your repository.
•	 Split in a sufficiently granular way. Don’t split the packages too early but also avoid having a 
lot of logic in a single package. Generally, you will find that the easier it is to give a short and 
specific self-descriptive name to a package, the better your code composition is.
•	 Avoid long package names.
•	 Always be ready to change the structure if requirements are changed or if the structure no 
longer reflects the package name/original intent.
This sums up the part of the chapter describing the core principles and best practices of Go application 
development and code organization. Now, we are ready to get to the practical side of this chapter.
Scaffolding an example application
We have covered the general recommendations for writing and organizing Go applications and we 
are finally ready to start writing the code! In this section, we are going to introduce an application, 
consisting of multiple microservices that are going to be used throughout the book. In each chapter, 
we are going to add to or improve them, converting them from small examples into production-grade 
services that are ready to be used.
You will learn how to scaffold microservice code and split the code into separate logical parts, each 
having its own role. We are going to apply the project structure and Go knowledge you gained in this 
chapter to illustrate how to set the right structure for each service and write its code in a conventional 
and idiomatic way.
