Scaffolding a Go Microservice
18
Tests
We are going to cover testing in detail in Chapter 8 of this book. Let’s provide here some key suggestions 
for writing Go tests in an idiomatic way:
•	 Tests should always provide information to the user on what exactly went wrong in case of a failure.
•	 Consider writing table-driven tests whenever possible. See this example: https://github.
com/golang/go/blob/master/src/fmt/errors_test.go.
•	 Generally, we should only test public functions. Your private function should be indirectly 
tested through them.
Make sure you always write tests for your code. Not only does this help with finding bugs earlier but 
it also helps to see how your code can be used. I personally find the latter especially useful.
Context
One of the key differences between the Go language and other popular languages is explicit context 
propagation. Context propagation is a mechanism of propagating an additional call argument, called 
context, into function calls, passing additional metadata.
Go context has a type called context.Context. There are multiple ways of using it:
•	 Cancelation logic: You can pass a special instance of a context that can get canceled. In that 
case, all functions you were to call with it would be able to detect this. Such logic can be useful 
for handling application shutdown or stopping any processing.
•	 Timeouts: You can set the timeouts for your execution by using the corresponding context 
functions.
•	 Propagating extra metadata: You can propagate additional key-value metadata inside the 
context. This way, any downstream functions called would receive that metadata inside the 
context object. There are some useful applications of this approach, one of which is distributed 
tracing, which we are going to cover in the following chapters.
We will get back to context propagation in the following chapters. Now, we can define some important 
aspects of using context in Go:
•	 Context is immutable but can be cloned with extra metadata.
•	 Functions using context should accept it as their first argument.
Additionally, some context best practices are as follows:
•	 Always pass context to functions performing I/O calls.
