What we will cover are as many of the practical aspects of using this
language as a daily driver as we can, including syntax, concurrency
primitives, and testing. For those of you with some prior experience in Go,
we will try to hit the most important changes to the language since the first
edition, such as modules, fuzzing, and the most recent major language
addition: generic programming with type parameters.
We hope that by the time you’ve finished reading, you’ll be just as hooked as
we are, and on your way to writing better, faster, more reliable software!
The source code for the examples in the book is available at
https://github.com/flowchartsman/go-in-action
1.1 Solving modern programming challenges with
Go
Developers today often have to make an uncomfortable choice between rapid
development and performance when choosing a language for their projects.
Languages like C and C++ offer fast execution, whereas languages like Ruby
and Python offer rapid development. The Go designers went to great lengths
to create a language that bridges these competing worlds and offers a high-
performance language with features that make development fast, without
unnecessary complexity.
As you explore Go, you’ll find well-planned features and a concise syntax.
As a language, Go is defined not only by what it includes, but by what it
doesn’t include. Go has few keywords to memorize and a type system which
provides expressiveness, composition and code reuse without all of the
cognitive overhead of a rigidly object-oriented paradigm. If you’ve been at
the mercy of long compilation times, you will be refreshed to use a compiler
that’s so fast, sometimes you’ll forget it’s running. Because of Go’s built-in
concurrency features, your software will scale to use the resources available
without forcing you to use special threading libraries. The Go runtime also
has a highly-optimized, concurrent garbage collector, freeing you from the
tedious and error-prone process of manual memory management. Let’s look
quickly at these key features.