128
CHAPTER 6
Storing data
post3 := Post{Id: 3, Content: "Hola Mundo!", Author: "Pedro"}
post4 := Post{Id: 4, Content: "Greetings Earthlings!", Author: "Sau Sheong"}
store(post1)
store(post2)
store(post3)
store(post4)
When you execute the program, you’ll see the following:
&{1 Hello World! Sau Sheong}
&{2 Bonjour Monde! Pierre}
&{1 Hello World! Sau Sheong}
&{4 Greetings Earthlings! Sau Sheong}
&{3 Hola Mundo! Pedro}
Note that you’re getting back the same post regardless of whether you access it
through the author or the post ID.
 This process seems simple and obvious enough—trivial even. Why would we want
to even talk about storing data in memory? 
 Very often in our web applications we start off with using relational databases (as in
chapter 2) and then as we scale, we realize that we need to cache the data that we
retrieve from the database in order to improve performance. As you’ll see in the rest
of this chapter, most of the methods used to persist data involve structs in one way or
another. Instead of using an external in-memory database like Redis, we have the
option of refactoring our code and storing the cache data in memory. 
 I’ll also introduce you to storing data in structs, which is going to be the recurrent
pattern for data storage for this chapter and much of the book.
6.2
File storage
Storing in memory is fast and immediate because there’s no retrieval from disk. But
there’s one very important drawback: in-memory data isn’t actually persistent. If you
never shut down your machine or program, or if it doesn’t matter if the data is lost (as
in a cache), then that’s probably fine. But you usually want data to be persisted when
the machine or program is shut down, even if it’s in cache. There are a number of
ways data can be persisted, but the most common method is to store it to some sort of
nonvolatile storage such as a hard disk or flash memory. 
 You have a number of options for storing data to nonvolatile storage. The tech-
nique we’ll discuss in this section revolves around storing data to the filesystem. Spe-
cifically we’ll explore two ways of storing data to files in Go. The first is through a
commonly used text format, CSV (comma-separated values), and the second is specific
to Go—using the gob package. 
CSV is a common file format that’s used for transferring data from the user to the
system. It can be quite useful when you need to ask your users to provide you with a
large amount of data and it’s not feasible to ask them to enter the data into your
forms. You can ask your users to use their favorite spreadsheet, enter all their data,
and then save it as CSV and upload it to your web application. Once you have the file,
