130
CHAPTER 6
Storing data
Writing to a file uses WriteFile, passing in the name of the file, the data to be written,
and a number representing the permissions to set for the file. Reading from a file sim-
ply uses ReadFile with the filename. The data that’s passed to both WriteFile and
read from ReadFile is byte slices.
 Writing to and reading from a file using a File struct is more verbose but gives you
more flexibility. To write a file, you first create it using the Create function in the os
package, passing it the name of the file you want to create. It’s good practice to use
defer to close the file so that you won’t forget. A defer statement pushes a function
call on a stack. The list of saved calls is then executed after the surrounding func-
tion returns. In our example, this means at the end of the main function file2 will be
closed, followed by file1. Once you have the File struct, you can write to it using the
Write method. There are a number of other methods you can call on the File struct
to write data to a file.
 Reading a file with the File struct is similar. You need to use the Open function in
the os package, and then use the Read method on the File struct, or any of the other
methods to read the data. Reading data using the File struct is much more flexible
because File has several other methods you can use to locate the correct part of the
file you want to read from.
 When you execute the program, you should see two files being created: data1 and
data2, both containing the text “Hello World!”.
6.2.1
Reading and writing CSV files
The CSV format is a file format in which tabular data (numbers and text) can be easily
written and read in a text editor. CSV is widely supported, and most spreadsheet pro-
grams, such as Microsoft Excel and Apple Numbers, support CSV. Consequently, many
programming languages, including Go, come with libraries that produce and con-
sume the data in CSV files.
 In Go, CSV is manipulated by the encoding/csv package. The next listing shows
code for reading and writing CSV. 
package main
import (
    "encoding/csv"
    "fmt"
    "os"
    "strconv"
)
type Post struct {
    Id     int
    Content string
    Author  string
}
Listing 6.3
Reading and writing CSV
