134
CHAPTER 6
Storing data
 Next, you’ll create a buffer from the raw data. Doing so will essentially give the raw
data the Read and Write methods. You create a decoder from the buffer using the
NewDecoder function. The decoder is then used to decode the raw data into the Post
struct that you passed in earlier.
 You define a Post struct called postRead, and then pass a reference to it into the
load function, along with the name of the binary data file. The load function will load
the data from the binary file into the struct.
 When you run the program, a post1 file, which contains the binary data, will be
created. You can open it and it’ll look like gibberish. The post1 file is also read into
another Post struct, and you’ll see the struct being printed on the console:
{1 Hello World! Sau Sheong}
We’re done with files. For the rest of this chapter, we’ll be discussing data stored in
specialized server-side programs called database servers.
6.3
Go and SQL
Storing and accessing data in the memory and on the filesystem is useful, but if you
need robustness and scalability, you’ll need to turn to database servers. Database servers
are programs that allow other programs to access data through a client-server model.
The data is normally protected from other means of access, except through the server.
Typically, a client (either a library or another program) connects to the database
server to access the data through a Structured Query Language (SQL). Database man-
agement systems (DBMSs) often include a database server as part of the system.
 Perhaps the most well-known and popularly used database management system is
the relational database management system (RDBMS). RDBMSs use relational databases,
which are databases that are based on the relational model of data. Relational data-
bases are mostly accessed through relational database servers using SQL.
 Relational databases and SQL are also the most commonly used means of storing
data in a scalable and easy-to-use way. I discussed this topic briefly in chapter 2, and I
promised that we’ll go through it properly in this chapter, so here goes.
6.3.1
Setting up the database
Before you start, you need to set up your database. In chapter 2 you learned how to
install and set up Postgres, which is the database we’re using for this section. If you
haven’t done so, now is a great time to do it.
 Once you’ve created the database, you’ll follow these steps:
1
Create the database user.
2
Create the database for the user.
3
Run the setup script that’ll create the table that you need.
Let’s start with creating the user. Run this command at the console:
createuser -P -d gwp
