ABOUT THIS BOOK
xiii
Part 2 provides step-by-step instructions for implementing gRPC microservices and
deploying them to the Kubernetes environment:
■
Chapter 3 provides information about installing gRPC and related tools (e.g.,
Protobuf) for project development. 
■
Chapter 4 explains hexagonal architecture and how to use it in microservices. It
also explains how to structure a Go project with gRPC clients and servers to
build a microservices project.
■
Chapter 5 explains how gRPC client–server interaction can be used in microser-
vice service-to-service communication.
■
Chapter 6 describes how important resiliency is and how to apply resiliency pat-
terns to gRPC service communications. The primary goals of this chapter are
reader understanding of failover scenarios and recovering from them.
■
Chapter 7 explains how to write unit and integration tests for microservices.
This is especially important for the microservices environment because many
changing pieces must be maintained properly.
■
Chapter 8 goes deep into some of the Kubernetes resources and shows how to
use them to deploy gRPC microservices to the Kubernetes environment. This
chapter also covers how to expose services to the public.
Part 3 covers gRPC microservice observability in the Kubernetes environment:
■
Chapter 9 focuses on observability and demonstrates how to integrate observ-
ability tools into gRPC microservices for better visibility on the entire platform.
About the code 
This book contains many examples of source code both in numbered listings and in
line with normal text. In both cases, source code is formatted in a fixed-width font
like this to separate it from ordinary text. Sometimes code is also in bold to high-
light code that has changed from previous steps in the chapter, such as when a new
feature adds to an existing line of code.
 In many cases, the original source code has been reformatted; we’ve added line
breaks and reworked indentation to accommodate the available page space in the
book. In rare cases, even this was not enough, and listings include line-continuation
markers (➥). Additionally, comments in the source code have often been removed
from the listings when the code is described in the text. Code annotations accompany
many of the listings, highlighting important concepts.
 You can get executable snippets of code from the liveBook (online) version of this
book at https://livebook.manning.com/book/grpc-microservices-in-go. The complete
code for the examples in the book is available for download from the Manning web-
site at https://www.manning.com/books/grpc-microservices-in-go, and from GitHub
at https://github.com/huseyinbabal/microservices.
