132
CHAPTER 6
Functions and methods
NOTE
In mistake #54, “Not handling defer errors,” we will discuss another
use case for using named result parameters in the context of defer calls.
Furthermore, if we’re not careful enough, using named result parameters can lead to
side effects and unintended consequences, as we see in the next section. 
6.3
#44: Unintended side effects with named 
result parameters
We mentioned why named result parameters can be useful in some situations. But as
these result parameters are initialized to their zero value, using them can sometimes
lead to subtle bugs if we’re not careful enough. This section illustrates such a case.
 Let’s enhance our previous example of a method that returns the latitude and lon-
gitude from a given address. Because we return two float32s, we decide to use named
result parameters to make the latitude and longitude explicit. This function will first
validate the given address and then get the coordinates. In between, it will perform a
check on the input context to make sure it wasn’t canceled and that its deadline
hasn’t passed.
NOTE
We will delve into the concept of context in Go in mistake #60, “Misun-
derstanding Go contexts.” If you’re not familiar with contexts, briefly, a con-
text can carry a cancellation signal or a deadline. We can check those by
calling the Err method and testing that the returned error isn’t nil.
Here’s the new implementation of the getCoordinates method. Can you spot what’s
wrong with this code?
func (l loc) getCoordinates(ctx context.Context, address string) (
lat, lng float32, err error) {
isValid := l.validateAddress(address)
if !isValid {
return 0, 0, errors.New("invalid address")
}
if ctx.Err() != nil {
return 0, 0, err
}
// Get and return coordinates
}
The error might not be obvious at first glance. Here, the error returned in the if
ctx.Err() != nil scope is err. But we haven’t assigned any value to the err variable.
It’s still assigned to the zero value of an error type: nil. Hence, this code will always
return a nil error.
 Furthermore, this code compiles because err was initialized to its zero value due to
named result parameters. Without attaching a name, we would have gotten the follow-
ing compilation error:
Unresolved reference 'err'
Validates 
the address
Checks whether the 
context was canceled or 
the deadline has passed
