17
Go in the vast language landscape
FORMATTING
Should block indentations use tabs or spaces? Formatting and style questions are reg-
ularly discussed and debated when it comes to coding conventions. How much time
would we save if these discussions didn’t need to happen? With Go, you don’t need to
spend time debating formatting or other idioms.
 Effective Go, available at http://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html, is a guide to writ-
ing idiomatic Go. It describes styles and conventions used throughout the Go commu-
nity. Using these conventions makes it easier to read and interact with Go programs. 
 Go has a built-in tool for reformatting code to meet many of the style guidelines.
Running the go fmt command from the root of a package causes Go to go through
each of the .go files in a package and rewrite them into the canonical style. The go
fmt command can have a path to a package or ./... (iterate over all subdirectories)
appended to it.
 Numerous editors have commands, either built in or through add-on packages, to
handle formatting for you. These include Vim, Sublime Text, Eclipse, and many oth-
ers. For example, the Sublime Text package GoSublime updates the formatting of a
file when it’s saved.
1.3
Go in the vast language landscape
GitHub, the popular code-hosting service, holds projects in hundreds of languages.
The TIOBE index, a listing of the most popular programming languages, indicates
that those popular languages are capturing a diminishing percent of the market.
More languages have traction. With so many languages available, it’s useful to know
where Go fits in.
 Go was designed to be a systems language. What we call cloud computing is often
considered a form of systems programming. Go was designed with systems program-
ming use cases in mind, which is where it excels.
 Being a systems language narrows its focus. For example, although Go is useful in
situations where C or C++ has been used, it’s not a good language for embedded sys-
tems. Go has a runtime and a garbage-collection system that don’t run well on embed-
ded systems with limited resources.
 Comparing Go to other popular programming languages can provide insight into
where it sits relative to those languages. Although we believe Go is great for some
applications, this isn’t a debate about which programming languages to use. Choosing
the right languages needs to take into account more than the characteristics of those
languages.
1.3.1
C and Go
Go initially came to life as an alternative to C for developing applications. Because the
original inspiration came out of developing in C (and C is one of the most popular
languages, if not the most popular), it’s helpful to show the similarities and differ-
ences in these languages.
