20
CHAPTER 1
Getting into Go
 Python and PHP are dynamically typed languages, whereas Go is a statically typed
language with dynamic-like features. Dynamic languages check type at runtime and
even perform what appear to be type conversions on the fly. Statically typed languages
do type checking based on static code analysis. Go has the ability to do some type
switching. Under some circumstances, variables of one type can be turned into vari-
ables of a different type. This may seem unorthodox for a statically typed language,
but it’s useful.
 When Python and PHP are used to build a website or application, they typically sit
behind a web server such as Nginx or Apache. A web browser connects to the web
server that handles the communication. The web server then hands off information to
the language runtime and program.
 Go has a built-in web server, as illustrated in figure 1.6. Applications, such as web
browsers, connect directly to a Go application, and the Go application manages the
connection. This provides a lower level of control and interaction with applications
that connect. The built-in Go web server handles connections concurrently, taking full
advantage of how the language works.
One of the reasons it’s useful to put Python and PHP behind a web server has to do
with threads and concurrent connections. Python has a global interpreter lock that
allows only one thread to execute at a time. PHP applications tend to run from start to
end in a process. To enable multiple connections to an application concurrently, a
web server can sit in front of the application and handle running the concurrent con-
nections in separate processes.
 The built-in Go web server takes advantage of goroutines to run connections con-
currently. The Go runtime manages the goroutines across application threads. You’ll
see this in more detail in chapter 3. Whereas Python and PHP end up with separate
A request to a Python or PHP 
application coming into a 
web server. From there the web 
server routes it to a process.
A Go application receives 
connections directly from clients. 
No intermediate application is 
necessary. Go handles the 
thread management.
Web 
Server
Process
Process
Process
Operating System
Go Application
Operating System
Figure 1.6
Python, PHP, and Go paths of a client request
