18
CHAPTER 1
Getting into Go
 Both Go and C compile into machine code for
a target operating system and architecture. Both
share many style similarities, but Go goes well
beyond what C does.
 Go provides a runtime that includes features
such as managing threads and garbage collection.
When writing Go applications, you give up con-
trol over thread management and work around
interruptions for garbage collection as you would
with other garbage-collected languages. In C, you
manage threads and memory yourself. Any
threads and the corresponding work on them are
handled by the application. Memory is intention-
ally managed without a garbage collector.
 C and its object-oriented derivatives such as
C++ enable a wide variety of applications to be
written. High-performance embedded systems,
large-scale cloud applications, and complicated desktop applications can all be written
in C. Go is useful as a systems and cloud-platform language. Go applications have a
sweet spot that provides real productivity.
 The Go runtime and toolchain provide a lot out of the box. This functionality
enables Go applications to be written fairly quickly and with less tedious work than a
comparable C counterpart. For example, a Go application taking advantage of all four
cores in a server can use goroutines. The C version would need to start threads and
manage the work moved between them in addition to the application code.
 Compiling C applications can take time. This is especially true when working with
outside dependencies and the need to compile them. Speed when compiling applica-
tions in Go was a design goal, and Go applications compile faster than their C coun-
terparts. When applications scale in size to the point that compiling can take minutes
or hours, saving time while compiling can make a real difference in the productivity of
your development. Compiling Go applications is fast enough that many applications
and their dependent packages can compile in seconds or less.
1.3.2
Java and Go
Java, which is consistently one of the most popular programming languages on the
planet, is used for a wide variety of projects, ranging from server applications to
mobile and Android applications to cross-platform desktop applications. Go was origi-
nally designed as a systems language. Although its use has expanded into areas such as
web and mobile development, Go still isn’t a language that you can use to easily write
a desktop application. It excels the most when used as originally intended.
 Given that Java is so popular and can be used for a wider variety of applications,
why would anyone want to use Go? Although the basic syntax is similar, Java and Go
are quite different. Go compiles to a single binary for an operating system. This binary
C + Go = cgo
Go provides support for bind-
ing C libraries to Go programs.
Go provides a library of C com-
patibility tools. This library
eases the transition between,
for example, C-style strings
and Go strings. Furthermore,
the Go tools can build mixed C
and Go programs. Go also has
support for Simplified Wrap-
per and Interface Generator
(SWIG) wrappers. You can get
a feel for the features by run-
ning go help c and go doc
cgo to read a brief overview.
