258
CHAPTER 10
Deploying Go
Our simple web service from chapter 7 consists of two files: data.go (listing 10.1),
which contains all the connections to the database, as well as the functions that read
from and write to the database, and server.go (listing 10.2), which contains the main
function and all the processing logic for the web service.
package main
import (
  "database/sql"
  _ "github.com/lib/pq"
)
var Db *sql.DB
func init() {
  var err error
  Db, err = sql.Open("postgres", "user=gwp dbname=gwp password=gwp 
   ➥ sslmode=disable")
  if err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }
}
func retrieve(id int) (post Post, err error) {
  post = Post{}
IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS
Cloud computing providers offer their services through different models. NIST (National
Institute of Standards and Technology, US Department of Commerce) defines three
service models that are widely used today: Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), Platform-
as-a-Service (PaaS), and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS). 
IaaS, the most basic of the three models, describes providers that offer their users
the basic computing capabilities, including compute, storage, and networking. Exam-
ples of IaaS services include the AWS Elastic Cloud Computing (EC2) service, Google’s
Compute Engine, and Digital Ocean’s Droplets.
PaaS is a model that describes providers that offer their users capabilities to deploy
applications to the infrastructure, using their tools. Examples include Heroku, AWS’s
Elastic Beanstalk, and Google’s App Engine. 
SaaS is a model that describes providers that offer application services to the users.
Most services used by consumers today can be considered SaaS services, but in the
context of this book, SaaS services include Heroku’s Postgres database service (which
provides a cloud-based Postgres service), AWS’s Relational Database Service (RDS),
and Google’s Cloud SQL.
In this book, and in this chapter, you’ll learn how you can use IaaS and PaaS providers
to deploy Go web applications.
Listing 10.1
Accessing the database with data.go
