257
Deploying to servers
■
A server that’s either fully owned by you, physical, or virtual (on an Infrastruc-
ture-as-a-Service provider, Digital Ocean)
■
A cloud Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) provider, Heroku
■
Another cloud PaaS provider, Google App Engine
■
A dockerized container, deployed to a local Docker server, and also to a virtual
machine on Digital Ocean
It’s important to remember that there are many different ways of deploying a web app
and in each of the methods you’ll be learning in this chapter, there are many varia-
tions. The methods described in this chapter are based on a single person deploying
the web app. The processes are usually a lot more involved in a production environ-
ment, which includes additiona tasks like running test suites, continual integration,
staging servers, and so on.
 This chapter also introduces many concepts and tools, each of them worthy of an
entire book. Therefore, it’s impossible to cover all of these technologies and services.
This chapter aims to cover only a small portion, and if you want to learn more, take
this as a starting point. 
 In our examples, you’ll be using the simple web service in section 7.6. Wherever
possible, you’ll use PostgreSQL (except in Google App Engine, where you’ll use
Google Cloud SQL, which is MySQL based). The base assumption is that the setup of
the database is done beforehand, on a separate database server, so setting up the data-
base isn’t covered here. If you need some brief guidance, review section 2.6. 
10.1
Deploying to servers
Let’s start with the simplest deployment: creating an executable binary and then run-
ning it off a server that’s on the internet. Whether this server is a physical server con-
nected to the internet or a virtual machine (VM) that’s been created on a provider
like Amazon Web Services (AWS) or Digital Ocean, it’s the same. In this section, you’ll
learn how to deploy to a server that’s running Ubuntu Server 14.04.
Cloud computing
Cloud computing, or “the cloud,” is a model of network and computer access that
provides a pool of shared resources (servers, storage, network, and others). This al-
lows the users of these resources to avoid up-front costs and the providers of the
resources to use the resources more effectively for a larger number of users. Cloud
computing has gained traction over the past years and is now a regular model used
by most large infrastructure and service providers, including Amazon, Google, and
Facebook.
