192
CHAPTER 8
Concurrency: Foundations
 Finally, let’s note that the available contexts in the standard library are all safe for
concurrent use by multiple goroutines. 
Summary
Understanding the fundamental differences between concurrency and parallel-
ism is a cornerstone of the Go developer’s knowledge. Concurrency is about
structure, whereas parallelism is about execution.
To be a proficient developer, you must acknowledge that concurrency isn’t
always faster. Solutions involving parallelization of minimal workloads may not
necessarily be faster than a sequential implementation. Benchmarking sequen-
tial versus concurrent solutions should be the way to validate assumptions.
Being aware of goroutine interactions can also be helpful when deciding
between channels and mutexes. In general, parallel goroutines require syn-
chronization and hence mutexes. Conversely, concurrent goroutines generally
require coordination and orchestration and hence channels.
Being proficient in concurrency also means understanding that data races and
race conditions are different concepts. Data races occur when multiple gorou-
tines simultaneously access the same memory location and at least one of them
is writing. Meanwhile, being data-race-free doesn’t necessarily mean determinis-
tic execution. When a behavior depends on the sequence or the timing of
events that can’t be controlled, this is a race condition.
Understanding the Go memory model and the underlying guarantees in terms
of ordering and synchronization is essential to prevent possible data races and/
or race conditions.
When creating a certain number of goroutines, consider the workload type.
Creating CPU-bound goroutines means bounding this number close to the
GOMAXPROCS variable (based by default on the number of CPU cores on the host).
Creating I/O-bound goroutines depends on other factors, such as the external
system.
Go contexts are also one of the cornerstones of concurrency in Go. A context
allows you to carry a deadline, a cancellation signal, and/or a list of keys-values.
