58
CHAPTER 4
Arrays, slices, and maps
4.1.1
Internals
An array in Go is a fixed-length data type that contains a contiguous block of elements
of the same type. This could be a built-in type such as integers and strings, or it can be
a struct type. 
 In figure 4.1 you can see the representation of an array. The elements of the array
are marked as a grey box and are connected in series to each other. Each element con-
tains the same type, in this case an integer, and can be accessed through a unique
index position. 
Arrays are valuable data structures because the memory is allocated sequentially. Hav-
ing memory in a contiguous form can help to keep the memory you use stay loaded
within CPU caches longer. Using index arithmetic, you can iterate through all the ele-
ments of an array quickly. The type information for the array provides the distance in
memory you have to move to find each element. Since each element is of the same type
and follows each other sequentially, moving through the array is consistent and fast. 
4.1.2
Declaring and initializing
An array is declared by specifying the type of data to be stored and the total number of
elements required, also known as the array’s length.
// Declare an integer array of five elements.
var array [5]int
Once an array is declared, neither the type of data being stored nor its length can be
changed. If you need more elements, you need to create a new array with the length
needed and then copy the values from one array to the other. 
 When variables in Go are declared, they’re always initialized to their zero value for
their respective type, and arrays are no different. When an array is initialized, each
individual element that belongs to the array is initialized to its zero value. In figure 4.2,
you can see an array of integers with each element in the array initialized to 0, the zero
value for integers.
Listing 4.1
Declaring an array set to its zero value
[ 0 ]
[ 1 ]
[ 2 ]
[ 3 ]
[ 4 ]
0
Integer
20
Integer
30
Integer
40
Integer
50
Integer
Figure 4.1
Array internals
