323
12.4
#94: Not being aware of data alignment
i
int64
b2 byte
_
[7]byte
}
Every time a Foo struct is created, it requires 24 bytes in memory, but only 10 bytes
contain data—the remaining 14 bytes are padding. Because a struct is an atomic unit,
it will never be reorganized, even after a garbage collection (GC); it will always occupy
24 bytes in memory. Note that the compiler doesn’t rearrange the fields; it only adds
padding to guarantee data alignment.
 How can we reduce the amount of memory allocated? The rule of thumb is to
reorganize a struct so that its fields are sorted by type size in descending order. In our
case, the int64 type is first, followed by the two byte types:
type Foo struct {
i
int64
b1 byte
b2 byte
}
Figure 12.24 shows how this new version of Foo is allocated in memory. i is allocated
first and occupies a complete word. The main difference is that now b1 and b2 can live
alongside each other in the same word.
Again, the struct must be a multiple of the word size; but instead of occupying 24 bytes
in memory, it occupies only 16 bytes. We saved 33% of the memory just by moving i to
the first position.
 What would be the concrete impacts if we used the first version of the Foo struct
(24 bytes) instead of the compacted one? If the Foo structs were retained (for exam-
ple, an in-memory Foo cache), our application would consume extra memory. But
even if the Foo structs weren’t retained, there would be other effects. For example, if
we created Foo variables frequently and they were allocated to the heap (we discuss
this concept in the next section), the result would be more frequent GCs, impacting
overall application performance.
 Speaking of performance, there’s another effect on spatial locality. For example,
let’s consider the following sum function that takes a slice of Foo structs as an argu-
ment. This function iterates over the slice and sums all the i fields (int64):
func sum(foos []Foo) int64 {
var s int64
Added by 
the compiler
b1
i
8 bytes (word)
b2
16 bytes
0x00
0x08
Figure 12.24
The struct now 
occupies 16 bytes in memory.
