348
CHAPTER 12
Optimizations
Sweep stage—Traverses the tree of references from the root and deallocates
blocks of objects that are no longer referenced
When a GC runs, it first performs a set of actions that lead to stopping the world (two stop-
the-worlds per GC, to be precise). That is, all the available CPU time is used to perform
the GC, putting our application code on hold. Following these steps, it starts the world
again, resuming our application but also running a concurrent phase. For that reason,
the Go GC is called concurrent mark-and-sweep: it aims to reduce the number of stop-the-
world operations per GC cycle and mostly run concurrently alongside our application.
 The Go GC also includes a way to free memory after consumption peak. Imagine
that our application is based on two phases:
An init phase that leads to frequent allocations and a large heap
A runtime phase with moderate allocations and a small heap
How will Go tackle the fact that the large heap is only helpful when the application
starts, not after that? This is handled as part of the GC with a so-called periodic scaven-
ger. After a certain time, the GC detects that such a large heap is no longer necessary,
so it frees some memory and returns it to the OS.
NOTE
If the scavenger isn’t quick enough, we can manually force memory to
be returned to the OS using debug.FreeOSMemory().
The important question is, when will a GC cycle run? Compared to other languages
such as Java, the Go configuration remains reasonably simple. It relies on a single
environment variable: GOGC. This variable defines the percentage of the heap growth
since the last GC before triggering another GC; the default value is 100%.
 Let’s look at a concrete example to be sure we understand. Let’s assume a GC just
got triggered and the current heap size is 128 MB. If GOGC=100, the next GC is trig-
gered when the heap size reaches 256 MB. A GC is executed by default every time the
heap size doubles. Also, if a GC hasn’t been executed during the last 2 minutes, Go
will force one to run.
 If we profile our application with production loads, we can fine-tune GOGC:
Reducing it will cause the heap to grow more slowly, increasing the pressure on
the GC.
Conversely, bumping it will cause the heap to grow faster, reducing the pressure
on the GC.
GC traces
We can print the GC traces by setting the GODEBUG environment variable, such as
while running a benchmark:
$ GODEBUG=gctrace=1 go test -bench=. -v
Enabling gctrace writes a trace to stderr each time the GC runs.
