172
CHAPTER 8
Concurrency: Foundations
parallelMergesortV2(s[middle:])
}()
wg.Wait()
merge(s, middle)
}
}
If the number of elements in the s slice is smaller than max, we call the sequential ver-
sion. Otherwise, we keep calling our parallel implementation. Does this approach
impact the result? Yes, it does:
Benchmark_sequentialMergesort-4
2278993555 ns/op
Benchmark_parallelMergesortV1-4
17525998709 ns/op
Benchmark_parallelMergesortV2-4
1313010260 ns/op
Our v2 parallel implementation is more than 40% faster than the sequential one,
thanks to this idea of defining a threshold to indicate when parallel should be more
efficient than sequential.
NOTE
Why did I set the threshold to 2,048? Because it was the optimal value
for this specific workload on my machine. In general, such magic values
should be defined carefully with benchmarks (running on an execution envi-
ronment similar to production). It’s also pretty interesting to note that run-
ning the same algorithm in a programming language that doesn’t implement
the concept of goroutines has an impact on the value. For example, running
the same example in Java using threads means an optimal value closer to
8,192. This tends to illustrate how goroutines are more efficient than threads.
We have seen throughout this chapter the fundamental concepts of scheduling in Go:
the differences between a thread and a goroutine and how the Go runtime schedules
goroutines. Meanwhile, using the parallel merge sort example, we illustrated that con-
currency isn’t always necessarily faster. As we have seen, spinning up goroutines to
handle minimal workloads (merging only a small set of elements) demolishes the ben-
efit we could get from parallelism.
 So, where should we go from here? We must keep in mind that concurrency isn’t
always faster and shouldn’t be considered the default way to go for all problems. First,
it makes things more complex. Also, modern CPUs have become incredibly efficient
at executing sequential code and predictable code. For example, a superscalar proces-
sor can parallelize instruction execution over a single core with high efficiency.
 Does this mean we shouldn’t use concurrency? Of course not. However, it’s essen-
tial to keep these conclusions in mind. If we’re not sure that a parallel version will be
faster, the right approach may be to start with a simple sequential version and build
from there using profiling (mistake #98, “Not using Go diagnostics tooling”) and
benchmarks (mistake #89, “Writing inaccurate benchmarks”), for example. It can be
the only way to ensure that a concurrency is worth it.
 The following section discusses a frequently asked question: when should we use
channels or mutexes?
