212
CHAPTER 9
Concurrency: Practice
about: buffered channels can lead to obscure deadlocks that would be immediately
apparent with unbuffered channels.
 There are other cases where unbuffered channels are preferable: for example, in
the case of a notification channel where the notification is handled via a channel clo-
sure (close(ch)). Here, using a buffered channel wouldn’t bring any benefits.
 But what if we need a buffered channel? What size should we provide? The default
value we should use for buffered channels is its minimum: 1. So, we may approach the
problem from this standpoint: is there any good reason not to use a value of 1? Here’s
a list of possible cases where we should use another size:
While using a worker pooling-like pattern, meaning spinning a fixed number of
goroutines that need to send data to a shared channel. In that case, we can tie
the channel size to the number of goroutines created.
When using channels for rate-limiting problems. For example, if we need to
enforce resource utilization by bounding the number of requests, we should set
up the channel size according to the limit.
If we are outside of these cases, using a different channel size should be done cau-
tiously. It’s pretty common to see a codebase using magic numbers for setting a chan-
nel size:
ch := make(chan int, 40)
Why 40? What’s the rationale? Why not 50 or even 1000? Setting such a value should
be done for a good reason. Perhaps it was decided following a benchmark or perfor-
mance tests. In many cases, it’s probably a good idea to comment on the rationale for
such a value.
 Let’s bear in mind that deciding about an accurate queue size isn’t an easy prob-
lem. First, it’s a balance between CPU and memory. The smaller the value, the more
CPU contention we can face. But the bigger the value, the more memory will need to
be allocated.
 Another point to consider is the one mentioned in a 2011 white paper about LMAX
Disruptor (Martin Thompson et al.; https://lmax-exchange.github.io/disruptor/files/
Disruptor-1.0.pdf):
Queues are typically always close to full or close to empty due to the differences in pace
between consumers and producers. They very rarely operate in a balanced middle ground
where the rate of production and consumption is evenly matched.
So, it’s rare to find a channel size that will be steadily accurate, meaning an accurate
value that won’t lead to too much contention or a waste of memory allocation.
 This is why, except for the cases described, it’s usually best to start with a default
channel size of 1. When unsure, we can still measure it using benchmarks, for
example.
 As with almost any topic in programming, exceptions can be found. Therefore, the
goal of this section isn’t to be exhaustive but to give directions about what size we
