218
CHAPTER 9
Concurrency: Practice
Both goroutines make a copy of the slice. Then they use append on the slice copy, not
the original slice. This prevents a data race because both goroutines work on isolated
data.
While working with slices in concurrent contexts, we must recall that using append on
slices isn’t always race-free. Depending on the slice and whether it’s full, the behavior
will change. If the slice is full, append is race-free. Otherwise, multiple goroutines may
compete to update the same array index, resulting in a data race.
 In general, we shouldn’t have a different implementation depending on whether
the slice is full. We should consider that using append on a shared slice in concurrent
applications can lead to a data race. Hence, it should be avoided.
 Now, let’s discuss a common mistake with inaccurate mutex locks on top of slices
and maps. 
9.10
#70: Using mutexes inaccurately with slices and maps
While working in concurrent contexts where data is both mutable and shared, we
often have to implement protected accesses around data structures using mutexes. A
common mistake is to use mutexes inaccurately when working with slices and maps.
Let’s look at a concrete example and understand the potential problems.
 We will implement a Cache struct used to handle caching for customer balances.
This struct will contain a map of balances per customer ID and a mutex to protect
concurrent accesses:
type Cache struct {
mu
sync.RWMutex
balances map[string]float64
}
Data races with slices and maps
How much do data races impact slices and maps? When we have multiple goroutines
the following is true:
Accessing the same slice index with at least one goroutine updating the value
is a data race. The goroutines access the same memory location.
Accessing different slice indices regardless of the operation isn’t a data race;
different indices mean different memory locations.
Accessing the same map (regardless of whether it’s the same or a different
key) with at least one goroutine updating it is a data race. Why is this differ-
ent from a slice data structure? As we mentioned in chapter 3, a map is an
array of buckets, and each bucket is a pointer to an array of key-value pairs. A
hashing algorithm is used to determine the array index of the bucket.
Because this algorithm contains some randomness during the map initializa-
tion, one execution may lead to the same array index, whereas another exe-
cution may not. The race detector handles this case by raising a warning
regardless of whether an actual data race occurs.
