200
CHAPTER 9
Concurrency: Practice
 The second option no longer relies on a closure and instead uses an actual
function:
for _, i := range s {
go func(val int) {
fmt.Print(val)
}(i)
}
We still execute an anonymous function within a new a goroutine (we don’t run go
f(i), for example), but this time it isn’t a closure. The function doesn’t reference val
as a variable from outside its body; val is now part of the function input. By doing so,
we fix i in each iteration and make our application work as expected.
 We have to be cautious with goroutines and loop variables. If the goroutine is a clo-
sure that accesses an iteration variable declared from outside its body, that’s a prob-
lem. We can fix it either by creating a local variable (for example, as we have seen
using val := i before executing the goroutine) or by making the function no longer
a closure. Both options work, and there isn’t one that we should favor over the other.
Some developers may find the closure approach handier, whereas others may find the
function approach more expressive.
 What happens with a select statement on multiple channels? Let’s find out. 
9.4
#64: Expecting deterministic behavior using select 
and channels
One common mistake made by Go developers while working with channels is to make
wrong assumptions about how select behaves with multiple channels. A false assump-
tion can lead to subtle bugs that may be hard to identify and reproduce.
 Let’s imagine that we want to implement a goroutine that needs to receive from
two channels:

messageCh for new messages to be processed.
disconnectCh to receive notifications conveying disconnections. In that case,
we want to return from the parent function.
Of these two channels, we want to prioritize messageCh. For example, if a disconnection
occurs, we want to ensure that we have received all the messages before returning.
 We may decide to handle the prioritization like so:
for {
select {
case v := <-messageCh:
fmt.Println(v)
case <-disconnectCh:
fmt.Println("disconnection, return")
return
}
}
Executes a function that takes 
an integer as an argument
Calls this function and passes 
the current value of i
Uses the select statement to 
receive from multiple channels
Receives new 
messages
Receives 
disconnections
