164
CHAPTER 6
HTML and email template patterns
func diaplayPage(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
     p := &Page{
            Title:   "A User",
            Content: qc,
     }
     t.ExecuteTemplate(w, "index.html", p)
}
This code starts out in a fairly typical manner. It begins by parsing the two templates,
quote.html and index.html, into a variable. In this case, you have two data structures
for use. The first is for the output of a web page. The second is Quote, which can be
converted to HTML.
 To create a piece of content separate from generating the page, a quote is instanti-
ated as part of the main function. Quote is passed into ExecuteTemplate along with
the quote.html template to render the quote as HTML. Instead of writing the template
to output, the template is written to Buffer. Then Buffer is converted to a string and
passed into template.HTML. The html/template package escapes most of the data
sent into it. An exception to that is template.HTML, which is safe HTML. Because the
content was generated from a template that performed escaping, you can store the
output of the quote.html template as safe HTML to use later.
 In the Page type, you’ll notice that the Content property is the type template.HTML.
When the dataset used to generate the page is created, the HTML generated from
the Quote object is set as the Content. When the index.html template is invoked with
the dataset, the template system knows to skip escaping anything of the type
template.HTML. The quote HTML is used as is. This provides a clean way to store and
pass around safe HTML.
WARNING
User input HTML should never be considered safe. Always escape
user input information, such as information gathered from a form field,
before presenting.
6.2
Using templates for email
Email is one of the staples of modern communication. It’s often used for service noti-
fications, registration verification, and more. Even services looking to take over where
email has dominated will end up using it in some capacity.
 The Go standard library doesn’t provide a special template package for email as it
does for HTML. Instead, the text and html template packages provide what you need
to send text and HTML email.
TECHNIQUE 38
Generating email from templates
Email is one of the places templates can be used. Sometimes email is generated as text
and other times as HTML. These happen to be the two template packages provided by
the standard library.
Creates page dataset 
with quote HTML
Writes quote and page 
to web server output
