153
TECHNIQUE 33
Caching parsed templates
text/template/parser package sits behind functions in the template packages such
as Parse and ParseFiles. Unless you work directly with the parser, which isn’t recom-
mended, it’s easy to miss all the work going on behind the functions you use.
 Methods such as the following technique allow you to avoid extra work by using a
parser that can speed up your application.
TECHNIQUE 33
Caching parsed templates
Go applications, as servers that respond to multiple requests, can generate many
responses to requests from many different clients. If for each response the application
has to parse a template, a lot of duplicate work is going on. If you can eliminate some
of that work at response time, you can speed up your application’s performance.
PROBLEM
You want to avoid repeatedly parsing the same template while an application is running.
SOLUTION
Parse the template, store the ready-to-use template in a variable, and repeatedly use
the same template each time you need to generate the output.
DISCUSSION
Instead of parsing the template in the http handler function, which means parsing
the template each time the handler function runs, you can move the parsing out of
the handler. Then you can repeatedly execute the template against different datasets
without parsing it each time. The following listing is a modified version of listing 6.2
that caches the parsed template.
package main
import (
     "html/template"
     "net/http"
)
var t = template.Must(template.ParseFiles("templates/simple.html"))
type Page struct {
     Title, Content string
}
func diaplayPage(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
     p := &Page{
            Title:   "An Example",
            Content: "Have fun stormin’ da castle.",
     }
     t.Execute(w, p)
}
func main() {
     http.HandleFunc("/", diaplayPage)
     http.ListenAndServe(":8080", nil)
}
Listing 6.4
Caching a parsed template: cache_template.go
Parses the template when
the package is initialized
Executes the 
template in the http 
handler function
