273
Deploying to Docker
https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation, select where you want to install Docker,
and follow the instructions. For Ubuntu Server 14.04, the instruction is as simple as this:
wget -qO- https://get.docker.com/ | sh
To verify that Docker is installed properly, run this command on the console:
sudo docker run hello-world
This command will pull the hello-world image from a remote repository and run it as
a container locally.
10.4.3 Docker concepts and components
The Docker engine, or Docker (figure
10.6), consists of a number of compo-
nents. The first, which you used earlier
in testing the Docker installation, is
the Docker client. This is the command-
line interface that allows you to inter-
act with the Docker daemon.
 The Docker daemon is the process
that sits on the host OS that answers
requests for service and orchestrates
the management of containers. Docker
containers, containers for short, are
lightweight virtualization of all the pro-
grams that are needed to run a particu-
lar application, including the OS.
Containers are lightweight because
though the application and other bun-
dled programs believe they have the
OS (and in fact the whole hardware) to
themselves, 
they 
actually 
don’t.
Instead, the share the same host OS.
 Docker containers are built on
Docker images, which are read-only tem-
plates that help to launch containers.
You run containers from images.
Docker images can be built in different
ways. One way of doing it involves
using a set of instructions contained in
a single file called the Dockerfile.
 Docker images can be stored locally
in the same computer as the Docker
daemon (also called the Docker host),
Docker host
Docker daemon
Docker client
Dockerfile
Docker images
Docker containers
Docker
registry
Figure 10.6
The Docker engine consists of the 
Docker client, the Docker daemon, and various 
Docker containers, which are instantiated as Docker 
images. Docker images can be created through 
Dockerfiles and can be stored in the Docker registry.
