263
Deploying to Heroku
Notice that before we killed the process, the ID for the job was 2011, whereas after you
tried killing the process, the process PID became 2030. This is because Upstart detects
that the process went down, so Upstart will try to restart it.
 Finally, most web applications are deployed to the standard HTTP port (port 80).
When it is time to do the final deployment, you should be changing the port number
from 8080 to 80, or use some mechanism to proxy or redirect traffic to port 80 to
port 8080.
10.2
Deploying to Heroku
I’ve just shown you how easy it is to deploy a simple Go web service to a server and also
how the web service can be managed by the init daemon. In this section, you’ll see
that it’s just as easy to deploy to Heroku, a PaaS provider.
 Heroku allows you to deploy, run, and manage applications written in a few pro-
gramming languages, including Go. An application, as defined by Heroku, is a collec-
tion of source code written in one of Heroku’s supported languages, as well as its
dependencies.
 Heroku’s premise is simple and requires only a couple of things:
■
A configuration file or mechanism that defines the dependencies. For example,
in Ruby this would be a Gemfile file, in Node.js a package.json file, and in Java a
pom.xml file.
■
A Procfile that defines what to be run. More than one executable can be run at
the same time.
Heroku uses the command line extensively and provides a command-line “toolbelt” to
deploy, run, and manage applications. In addition, Heroku uses Git to push source
code to the server to be deployed. When the Heroku platform receives the code
through Git, it builds the application and retrieves the dependencies that are speci-
fied, and then assembles them into a slug. These slugs are then run on Heroku dynos,
Heroku’s terminology for isolated, lightweight virtualized Unix containers. 
 Although some of the management and configuration activities can later be done
through a web interface, Heroku’s main interface is still through its command-line
toolbelt. So the first thing you need to do to use Heroku, after registering for an
account, is to download the toolbelt at https://toolbelt.heroku.com.
 There are many reasons why you’d want to use a PaaS (Heroku is an atypical PaaS)
to deploy your web application. As a web application programmer, you’ll find the most
direct reason is that your infrastructure and systems layers are now abstracted and man-
aged for you. Although in a large-scale production environment such as in corporate IT
infrastructure this is not usually an issue, PaaS has become a boon for smaller compa-
nies and startups where there’s less need for up-front capital cost commitments. 
 Once you have downloaded the toolbelt, log into Heroku using the credentials you
received when registering for an account:
heroku login
Enter your Heroku credentials.
