266
CHAPTER 10
Deploying Go
Using heroku create will initialize a local Git repository for the web service and add
the remote Heroku repository. Once you’ve created the application, you can use Git
to push the code to the application:
git push heroku master
This will push your code to Heroku, triggering a build and deploy. And that’s all you
need to do! Heroku also provides a number of nifty application management tools for
scaling and managing releases, as well as configuration tools to add new services.
10.3
Deploying to Google App Engine
Another popular PaaS for Go web applications is the Google App Engine (GAE).
Google has a number of services in its Google Cloud Platform suite of products,
including the App Engine and the Compute Engine. The App Engine is a PaaS ser-
vice; a Compute Engine, like AWS’s EC2 and Digital Ocean’s Droplets, is an IaaS
service. Using EC2 or Droplets isn’t much different from having your own VM or run-
ning your own server, and we’ve covered that. This section explores Google’s powerful
PaaS service, GAE.
 There are a number of reasons why you’d use GAE as compared with any other
PaaS, including Heroku. The main reasons are performance and scalability. GAE allows
you to build applications that can automatically scale and load balance according to its
load. Google also provides a large number of tools and capabilities built into the GAE.
For example, it can allow your application to authenticate into Google Accounts and it
provides services to send emails, create logs, and serve and manipulate images. Inte-
gration into other Google APIs is also more straightforward using GAE.
 With any advantages there are also a number of disadvantages. For one, you have
read-only access to the filesystem, you can’t have a request lasting more than 60 sec-
onds (GAE will kill it if you do), and you can’t have direct network access or make
other kinds of system calls. This means you can’t (at least not easily) access many ser-
vices outside of Google’s sandboxed application environment.
 Figure 10.2 shows a high-level overview of the steps for deploying a web application
on the GAE.
Figure 10.2
Steps to deploy on the Google App Engine. First change the code to use Google libraries 
and create the app.yml configuration file. Then create the application and push it to the GAE.
As with all other Google services, you’ll need a Google account to start with. Unlike Her-
oku, much of the management and servicing of the web application is done through
the web interface (figure 10.3), called the Google Developer Console (https://
console.developers.google.com). 
Change code: use
Google libraries
Create
app.yml file
Create GAE
application
Push code to
GAE application
