const N = 1024 * 1024 * 10 // 10M
func f(v [N]byte, n int) {
if n > 0 {
f(v, n-1)
}
}
func main() {
var x [N]byte
f(x, 50)
}
If the call f(x, 50) is changed to f(x, 48), then the program will exit without crashing (on 64-bit
systems).
We can call the runtime/debug.SetMaxStack function to change the global stack maximum limit
setting. There is not a formal way to control the initial stack size of a goroutine, though an informal
way will be provided in a later section of this chapter.
4.5
Memory wasting caused by unused stack spaces
As aforementioned, Go runtime will create a stack for each goroutine. The size of the memory zone
of a stack is often larger than the size the stack really needs, which means there is some memory
wasted on most stacks. If the stack of a goroutine grows to a much larger size, then there will be more
memory wasted. And, a bit extra memory is needed to store goroutine information. So the more
goroutines are alive at the same time, the more memory is wasted. Thousands of simultaneous alive
goroutine might be not a problem, millions might be, depending on how much memory is available.
4.6
For all kinds of reasons, a value (part) will escape to heap
even if it is only used in one goroutine
The following sub-sections will introduce some such cases.
4.6.1
A local variables declared in a loop will escape to heap if it is referenced
by a value out of the loop
For example, the variable n in the following code will escape to heap. The reason is there might be
many coexisting instances of n if its containing loop needs many steps to finish. The number of the
instances is often hard or impossible to determine at compile time, whereas the stack frame size of
a function must be determined at compile time, so the compiler lets every instance of n escape to
heap.
It is admitted that, for this specified example, the compiler could be smarter to determine that the
loop step is one and only one coexisting instance of n is needed. The current the official standard
Go compiler (v1.19) doesn’t consider such special calses.
package main
func main() {
var x *int
39
