Basics of middleware processing
Within a web application, a request message is ingested and a response is
produced, as has been reinforced in prior chapters. Typically, within handlers,
there are fairly common tasks associated with the ingest of a request. Common
request tasks include request body parsing and data binding, logging of requests,
validating request authentication and session management, and request metadata
creation. Conversely, common response-related tasks include request body
rendering, as well as graceful error and panic handling. When you start looking
at the common overhead associated with handling a request and generating a
response, you can start seeing potential reuse cases.
As a concrete example, we have two handlers, CreateReminder and GetReminder,
which parse requests, validate that the user's session is authentic and valid,
perform request pedigree logging, and then perform the particular business logic
for the given handler before rendering a response. In our particular example, one
might try to solve the duplication of code by creating helper functions to perform
the various overhead functionality. Though this is a fine solution, we are still left
with much duplication in each handler, and are calling the same helper functions
within each handler. Though the code is reusable, the handler is still riddled with
helper function calls. Moreover, when one of the helper function signature
changes, we must touch all of the handlers that use those helper functions to
refactor, which is not optimal.
A much better solution is to take all of these common overhead functionalities
completely out of the handler code and allow our handlers to be somewhat
ignorant of the complexities involved. Echo does provide some of this overhead
handling for us with the Context.Bind functionality, which we will discuss in the
next chapter, which is all about handling the binding of request parameters. The
handler does not need to know how or when the parsing of the request structure
occurs, as the framework handles this functionality.
Luckily, Echo's middleware implementation allows us the ability to inject
functions before and after a handler is run. As seen in the following diagram, this
is how a request middleware pipeline would work:
