209
TECHNIQUE 54
API version in the URL
            for i, u := range vv {
                   fmt.Print(i, " ")
                   printJSON(u)
            }
     case map[string]interface{}:
            fmt.Println("is an object:")
            for i, u := range vv {
                   fmt.Print(i, " ")
                   printJSON(u)
            }
     default:
            fmt.Println("Unknown type")
     }
}
Although it’s handy to be able to parse and work with JSON when you don’t know the
structure, it’s useful to have known structures or to handle the version changes when
those structures change. In the next section, you’ll learn about versioning APIs that
includes changes in JSON structures.
8.4
Versioning REST APIs
Web services evolve and change, which leads to changes in the APIs used to access or
manage them. To provide a stable API contract for API consumers, changes to the API
need to be versioned. Because programs are the users of an API, they need to be
updated to account for changes, which takes time after an update is released.
 APIs are typically versioned by major number changes such as v1, v2, and v3. This
number scheme signifies breaking changes to the API. An application designed to work
with v2 of an API won’t be able to consume the v3 API version because it’s too different.
 But what about API changes that add functionality to an existing API? For example,
say that functionality is added to the v1 API. In this case, the API can be incremented
with a point version; feature additions can increment the API to v1.1. This tells devel-
opers and applications about the additions.
 The following two techniques cover a couple of ways to expose versioned APIs.
TECHNIQUE 54
API version in the URL
A change in the API version needs to be easy to see and work with. The easier it is for
developers to see, understand, and consume, the more likely they are to work with it
and to fully use services.
 Versioned APIs that easily work with existing tools are also important. For example,
the ability to quickly test API calls with cURL or Postman, a popular API extension for
Chrome, makes it easier for developers to develop and test APIs.
PROBLEM
What is an easily accessible method to provide versioned APIs?
For each type of data from the JSON, 
displays information about the type and 
value. On objects and arrays from the 
JSON, recursively calls printJSON to 
display the properties inside them.
