Service Discovery
76
5.	
Check the output logs of the movie service now (you should be able to see them in the terminal 
where you ran the go run command for the movie service). If you did everything correctly, 
you should see a similar line:
2022/06/08 13:37:42 Calling metadata service. Request: 
GET http://localhost:8081/metadata
The preceding line is the result of a call to the service registry backed by the Consul. In our 
metadata service gateway implementation, we select a random active instance from the registry 
and log its address before making a call. If you have more than one instance of a metadata 
service, you can make multiple curl requests listed previously and see that the movie service 
always picks a random instance among them.
At this point, we have illustrated how to use service discovery with our microservices. We can now 
dynamically scale our microservices by adding and removing their instances without any need to 
change the service code. We also have two working implementations of a service registry that you 
can use in your code. Now, we are ready to move to the next chapter, covering another important 
topic, data serialization.
Summary
In this chapter, we did an overview of service discovery and compared its different models. You have 
learned what the service registry is and what its main service discovery models are. We have illustrated 
how to use a client-side service discovery model by providing two implementations, one using an 
in-memory set of data and another using Hashicorp Consul. We have also plugged the Consul-based 
implementation into our microservices to demonstrate how to use it in the microservice logic. Now, 
you know how to add and use service discovery in your applications.
In the next chapter, we are going to discuss another important topic: serialization. You will learn how 
to encode and decode the data transferred between the services. This will help us move to further 
topics, covering the communication between the services we will cover in Chapter 5.
Further reading
•	 Service discovery overview: https://www.nginx.com/blog/service-discovery-
in-a-microservices-architecture
•	 Server-side service discovery: https://microservices.io/patterns/server-
side-discovery.html
