105
TECHNIQUE 21
Trapping panics on goroutines
To illustrate this idea, imagine that you have a simple server. The server functions as
follows:
The main function runs start to start a new server.
The start function processes configuration data and then runs the listen
function.
The listen function opens a network port and listens for new requests. When
it gets a request, instead of handling the request itself, it calls go handle, pass-
ing on any necessary information to the handle function.
The handle function processes the request and then calls response.
The response function sends data back to the client and terminates the
connection.
The listener function uses goroutines to handle multiple client connections at once.
As it receives requests, it can push the workload onto a number of handle functions,
each running in its own space. Variations of this powerful pattern are used frequently
in Go server applications. Figure 4.2 illustrates this application and its function stacks
when you use goroutines.
Each row represents a function stack, and each call to go starts a new function stack.
Each time listen receives a new request, a new function stack is created for the ensu-
ing handle instance. And whenever handle finishes (for example, when response
returns), that spawned goroutine is cleaned up.
 Goroutines are powerful and elegant. Because they’re both simple to write and
cheap to use (they incur little overhead on your program), Go developers use them
frequently. But in one specific (and unfortunately common) situation, the combina-
tion of goroutines and panics can result in a program crash.
TECHNIQUE 21
Trapping panics on goroutines
When handling a panic, the Go runtime unwinds the function stack until a recover
occurs. But if it gets to the top of a function stack and recover is never called, the pro-
gram dies. Recall figure 4.2, which showed how a goroutine gets its own function call
stack. What happens when a panic occurs on that goroutine? Take a look at figure 4.3.
Imagine that during a request, the response function encounters an unforeseen fatal
error and panics. As a good server developer, you’ve added all kinds of error-handling
logic to listen. But if you haven’t added anything to handle, the program will crash.
Why? Because when a panic is unhandled at the top of a function stack, it causes Go to
main()
start()
listen()
handle()
response()
go handle()
Figure 4.2
A simple server
