93
TECHNIQUE 18
Error variables
SOLUTION
Create a type that implements the error interface but provides additional functionality.
DISCUSSION
Imagine you’re writing a file parser. When the parser encounters a syntax error, it gen-
erates an error. Along with having an error message, it’s generally useful to have infor-
mation about where in the file the error occurred. You could build such an error as
shown in the following listing.
type ParseError struct {
     Message    string
     Line, Char int
}
func (p *ParseError) Error() string {
     format := "%s o1n Line %d, Char %d"
     return fmt.Sprintf(format, p.Message, p.Line, p.Char)
}
This new ParseError struct has three properties: Message, Line, and Char. You imple-
ment the Error function by formatting all three of those pieces of information into
one string. But imagine that you want to return to the source of the parse error and
display that entire line, perhaps with the trouble-causing character highlighted. The
ParseError struct makes that easy to do.
 This technique is great when you need to return additional information. But what
if you need one function to return different kinds of errors?
TECHNIQUE 18
Error variables
Sometimes you have a function that performs a complex task and may break in a cou-
ple of different, but meaningful, ways. The previous technique showed one way of
implementing the error interface, but that method may be a little heavy-handed if
each error doesn’t also need additional information. Let’s look at another idiomatic
use of Go errors.
PROBLEM
One complex function may encounter more than one kind of error. And it’s useful to
users to indicate which kind of error was returned so that the ensuing applications can
appropriately handle each error case. But although distinct error conditions may
occur, none of them needs extra information (as in technique 17).
SOLUTION
One convention that’s considered good practice in Go (although not in certain other
languages) is to create package-scoped error variables that can be returned whenever
a certain error occurs. The best example of this in the Go standard library comes in
the io package, which contains errors such as io.EOF and io.ErrNoProgress.
Listing 4.7
Parse error
The error message without 
location information
The location information
Implements the 
Error interface
