197
TECHNIQUE 49
Detecting timeouts
move between locations and to be updated in place. When you’re working with HTTP
connections, it’s useful to detect problems, report them, and try to fix them automati-
cally when possible.
TECHNIQUE 49
Detecting timeouts
Connection timeouts are a common problem and useful to detect. For example, if a
timeout error occurs, especially if it’s in the middle of a connection, retrying the oper-
ation might be worthwhile. On retry, the server you were connected to may be back
up, or you could be routed to another working server.
 To detect timeouts in the net package, the errors returned by it have a Timeout()
method that’s set to true in the case of a timeout. Yet, in some cases, a timeout occurs
and Timeout() doesn’t return true, or the error you’re working with comes from
another package, such as url, and doesn’t have the Timeout() method.
 Timeouts are typically detected by the net package when a timeout is explicitly set,
such as in listing 8.3. When a timeout is set, the request needs to complete in the time-
out period. Reading the body is included in the timeout window. But a timeout can
also happen when one isn’t set. In this case, a timeout in the network occurs while the
timeout checking isn’t actively looking for it.
PROBLEM
How can network timeouts be reliably detected?
SOLUTION
When timeouts occur, a small variety of errors occurs. Check the error for each of
these cases to see if it was a timeout.
DISCUSSION
When an error is returned from a net package operation or a package that takes
advantage of net, such as http, check the error against known cases showing a time-
out error. Some of these will be for the explicit cases where a timeout was set and
cleanly detected. Others will be for the cases where a timeout wasn’t set but a timeout
occurred.
 The following listing contains a function that looks at a variety of error situations
to detect whether the error was caused by a timeout.
func hasTimedOut(err error) bool {
     switch err := err.(type) {
     case *url.Error:
            if err, ok := err.Err.(net.Error); ok && err.Timeout() {
                   return true
            }
Listing 8.4
Detect a network timeout from error
A function whose response is true or false if 
a network timeout caused the error
Uses a type switch to detect 
the type of underlying error
A url.Error may be caused by an underlying net 
error that can checked for a timeout.
