39
Narrow scope, wide scope
The era variable is declared outside of the main function in the package scope. If there were 
multiple functions in the main package, era would be visible from all of them.
NOTE Short declaration is not available for variables declared in the package scope, so
era can’t be declared with era := "AD" at its current location.
The year variable is only visible within the main function. If there were other functions, 
they could see era but not year. The function scope is narrower than the package scope. It 
begins at the func keyword and ends with the terminating brace.
The month variable is visible anywhere within the switch statement, but once the switch 
statement ends, month is no longer in scope. The scope begins at the switch keyword and 
ends with the terminating brace for switch.
Each case has its own scope, so there are three independent day variables. As each case 
ends, the day variable declared within that case goes out of a scope. This is the only situa-
tion where there are no braces to indicate scope.
The code in listing 4.6 is far from perfect. The narrow scope of month and day results in 
code duplication (Println, Println, Println). When code is duplicated, someone may revise 
the code in one place, but not the other (such as deciding not to print the era, but forget-
ting to change one case). Sometimes code duplication is justified, but it’s considered a 
code smell, and should be looked at.
To remove the duplication and simplify the code, the variables in listing 4.6 should be 
declared in the wider function scope, making them available after the switch statement 
for later work. It’s time to refactor! Refactoring means modifying the code without modi-
fying the code’s behavior. The code in the following listing still displays a random date.
package main
import (
    "fmt"
    "math/rand"
)
var era = "AD"
func main() {
    year := 2018
    month := rand.Intn(12) + 1
    daysInMonth := 31
Listing 4.7 Random date refactored: random-date.go
 
