99
Summary
   
Summary
Functions are declared with a name, a list of parameters, and a list of results.
Capitalized function names and types are made available to other packages.
Each parameter or result is a name followed by a type, though types may be 
elided when multiple named parameters or results have the same type. Results 
can also be listed as types without names.
Function calls are prefixed with the name of the package where the function is 
declared, unless the function is declared in the same package it’s called from.
Functions are called with arguments that correspond to the parameters they 
accept. Results are returned to the caller with the return keyword.
Isolation can be a good thing
The kelvinToCelsius function in listing 12.1 is isolated from other functions. Its only input
is the parameter it accepts, and its only output is the result it returns. It makes no mod-
ifications to external state. Such functions are side-effect-free and are the the easiest to
understand, test, and reuse.
The kelvinToCelsius function does modify the variable k, but k and kelvin are completely
independent variables, so assigning a new value to k inside the function has no impact
on the kelvin variable in main. This behavior is called pass by value, because the k param-
eter is initialized with the value of the kelvin argument. Pass by value facilitates the
boundary between functions, helping to isolate one function from another.
We’ve given the variables different names, but pass by value applies even if arguments
and parameters have the same names.
Additionally, the variable named k in kelvinToCelsius is completely independent from any
variable named k in other functions, thanks to variable scope. Scope is covered in lesson
4, but to reiterate, the parameters in a function declaration and the variables declared
within a function body have function scope. Variables declared in different functions are
completely independent, even if they have the same name.
Quick check 12.2 What are some advantages of splitting code into functions?
QC 12.2 answer Functions are reusable, they provide isolation for variables through function scope,
and they provide a name for the action they perform which makes code easier to follow and understand.
 
