231
Handling errors
This lesson explores a few ways to handle errors and delves into how errors are made. 
It closes by contrasting Go’s style of error handling with that of other programming 
languages.
28.1 Handling errors
In programming languages of the past, the limitation of a single return value made error 
handling somewhat obscure. Functions would overload the same return value to indi-
cate both an error or a successful value, or require a side channel to communicate the 
error, such as a global errno variable. Worse still, the mechanism to communicate errors 
was inconsistent from function to function.
Go has multiple return values, as mentioned in lesson 12. Though not specific to error 
handling, multiple return values provide a simple and consistent mechanism to return 
errors to calling functions. If a function can return an error, the convention is to use the 
last return value for errors. The caller should check if an error occurred immediately after 
calling a function. If no errors occurred, the error value will be nil.
To demonstrate error handling, listing 28.1 calls the ReadDir function. If an error occurs, 
the err variable won’t be nil, causing the program to print the error and exit immedi-
ately. The nonzero value passed to os.Exit informs the operating system that an error 
occurred.
If ReadDir is successful, files will be assigned to a slice of os.FileInfo, providing informa-
tion on the files and directories at the specified path. In this case, a dot is specified for 
the path, indicating the current directory.
Consider this In the early 18th century, Alexander Pope penned a poem containing a
now well-known phrase: to err is human. Take a moment to consider this phrase and
how it might relate to computer programming.
To err is human; to forgive, divine.
—Alexander Pope, “An Essay on Criticism: Part 2”
Here’s our take: everyone makes mistakes. Systems fail. Errors happen all the time.
Errors aren’t exceptional, so you should expect that things could go wrong. What’s
important is how you choose to respond. Acknowledge errors, don’t ignore them. Work
to resolve issues and move on.
 
