260
Lesson 30  Goroutines and concurrency
30.4 Channel surfing with select
In the preceding example, we used a single channel to wait for many goroutines. That 
works well when all the goroutines are producing the same type of value, but that’s not 
always the case. Often we’ll want to wait for two or more different kinds of values.
One example of this is when we’re waiting for some values over a channel but we want 
to avoid waiting too long. Perhaps we’re a little impatient with our sleepy gophers, and 
our patience runs out after a time. Or we may want to time out a network request after a 
few seconds rather than several minutes.
Fortunately, the Go standard library provides a nice function, time.After, to help. It 
returns a channel that receives a value after some time has passed (the goroutine that 
sends the value is part of the Go runtime).
We want to continue receiving values from the sleepy gophers until either they’ve all 
finished sleeping or our patience runs out. That means we need to wait on both the 
timer channel and the other channel at the same time. The select statement allows us to 
do this.
The select statement looks like the switch statement covered in lesson 3. Each case inside 
a select holds a channel receive or send. select waits until one case is ready and then 
runs it and its associated case statement. It’s as if select is looking at both channels at 
once and takes action when it sees something happen on either of them.
The following listing uses time.After to make a timeout channel and then uses select to 
wait for the channel from the sleepy gophers and the timeout channel.
timeout := time.After(2 * time.Second)
for i := 0; i < 5; i++ {
    select {
    case gopherID := <-c:
        fmt.Println("gopher ", gopherID, " has finished sleeping")
    case <-timeout:
        fmt.Println("my patience ran out")
        return
    }
}
Listing 30.5 Impatiently waiting for sleepy gophers: select1.go
The select statement
Waits for a gopher to wake up
Waits for time 
to run out
Gives up and returns
 
