263
A gopher assembly line
   
30.6 A gopher assembly line
So far, our gophers have been pretty sleepy. They just sleep for a while and then wake 
up and send a single value on their channel. But not all gophers in this factory are like 
that. Some are industriously working on an assembly line, receiving an item from a 
gopher earlier in the line, doing some work on it, then sending it on to the next gopher 
in the line. Although the work done by each gopher is simple, the assembly line can pro-
duce surprisingly sophisticated results.
This technique, known as a pipeline, is useful for processing large streams of data without 
using large quantities of memory. Although each goroutine might hold only a single value 
at a time, it may process millions of values over time. A pipeline is also useful because you 
can use it as a “thought tool” to help solve some kinds of problems more easily.
We already have all the tools we need to assemble goroutines into a pipeline. Go values 
flow down the pipeline, handed from one goroutine to the next. A worker in the pipe-
line repeatedly receives a value from its upstream neighbor, does something with it, and 
sends the result downstream.
Let’s build an assembly line of workers that process string values. The gopher at the 
start of the assembly line is shown in listing 30.7—the source of the stream. This gopher 
doesn’t read values, but only sends them. In another program, this might involve read-
ing data from a file, a database, or the network, but here we’ll just send a few arbitrary 
values. To tell the downstream gophers that there are no more values, the source sends a 
sentinel value, the empty string, to indicate when it’s done.
func sourceGopher(downstream chan string) {
    for _, v := range []string{"hello world", "a bad apple", "goodbye all"} 
➥{
        downstream <- v
    }
    downstream <- ""
}
Listing 30.7 Source gopher: pipeline1.go
Quick check 30.5 What does a blocked goroutine do?
QC 30.5 answer It does nothing at all.
 
