270
Lesson 31  Concurrent state
Perhaps two gophers talking at the same time confuse the seller at the other end of the 
line, and they end up ordering the wrong things, or the wrong quantity of things, or 
something else about the order goes wrong. There’s no way to know—all bets are off.
That’s the problem with shared Go values. Unless we explicitly know that it’s okay to 
use the specific kind of value in question concurrently, we must assume that it’s not 
okay. This kind of situation is known as a race condition because it’s as if the goroutines 
are racing to use the value.
NOTE The Go compiler includes functionality that tries to find race conditions in your
code. It’s well worth using, and it’s always worth fixing your code if it reports a race. See
golang.org/doc/articles/race_detector.html.
NOTE It’s okay if two goroutines read from the same thing at the same time, but if you
read or write at the same time as another write, you’ll get undefined behavior.
31.1 Mutexes
Back in the gopher factory, one clever gopher has a bright idea. She puts a glass jar in the 
middle of the factory floor that holds a single metal token. When a gopher needs to use 
the phone, they take the token out of the jar and keep it until the phone call has finished. 
Then they return the token to the jar. If there’s no token in the jar when a gopher wants 
to make a call, they have to wait until the token is returned.
Consider this Say we have a bunch of goroutines working away, crawling the web
and scraping web pages. We might want to keep track of which web pages have
already been visited. Let’s say we want to keep track of the number of web links to each
page (Google does something similar to this in order to rank web pages in its search
results).
It seems like we could use a map shared between the goroutines that holds the link
count for each web page. When a goroutine processes a web page, it would increment
the entry in the map for that page.
However, doing that is a mistake because all the goroutines are updating the map at
the same time, and that produces race conditions. We need some way of getting
around that. Enter mutexes.
 
