7
1.3
When to use gRPC
 Since gRPC has built-in HTTP 2.0 support, you can also use unary and bidirec-
tional streaming between clients and servers, resulting in high-speed communication.
With REST services’ default settings, multiple client–server communications can
introduce a delay in overall system performance.
 There are also cases in which REST is more beneficial than gRPC. For example,
the REST protocol is supported in all kinds of browsers. Since gRPC support is mini-
mal, you may need to use a proxy layer, such as gRPC Web (https://github.com/
grpc/grpc-web), to easily communicate with the gRPC server.
 gRPC has lots of advantages, such as being able to define messages to easily
exchange data between services. Regarding readability, JSON and XML usage in
REST has advantages, such as changing the request freely if there is no explicit busi-
ness validation for the changed fields. In contrast, you need to follow some rules in
gRPC to make a change. We will explain this in detail in chapter 5.
 gRPC has a built-in client and server stub generation mechanism for which you
need to use a framework in REST such as Swagger Codegen to generate client-side
models. This becomes critical, especially once you have multiple services and main-
tain multiple SDKs for customers simultaneously. Now that we understand the differ-
ences between REST and gRPC, let’s look at when it makes sense to use gRPC.
1.3
When to use gRPC
If you have strict requirements for browser support, then you need to think of using
REST, because you will end up setting up another layer for conversion between
HTTP/2 and HTTP/1. However, you can still use gRPC for interservice communica-
tion and attach a gRPC load balancer (http://mng.bz/BmZ8) to that service pool to
expose API to the public for REST compatibility, which we will see in detail in chapter
9. Other alternatives include Twirp (https://github.com/twitchtv/twirp), an RPC
framework built on Protobuf. Twirp lets you enable the REST layer for gRPC services
in a way that allows you to access your endpoints, as in the following example, which
sends a POST request with a JSON payload:
curl -X "POST" \
      - H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -d '{"name": "dev-cluster"}' \
      ➥ http://localhost:8080/twirp/github.com/huseyinbabal/microservices-
      ➥ proto/cluster/Create
Polyglot development environments are ideal for gRPC integrations since using the
Python client within the Checkout service to access the Payment service, which is writ-
ten using Java, is very easy with client stub generation. You can apply the same strategy
to your SDK generations for public consumers. Also, whenever you change your ser-
vice definitions, the test fails on the client side, which is a suitable verification mecha-
nism for your microservices. 
 
