8
CHAPTER 1
Introduction to Go gRPC microservices
 You will learn how to test gRPC microservices in chapter 7. gRPC may not be the
proper selection for simple applications such as startup projects that contain only one
to two services since maintaining the proto files that contain service definitions is not
easy, especially for inexperienced users. 
 It is, however, acceptable to use gRPC communication between internal services,
but exposing a gRPC interface to customers may not be ideal, especially if there is no
SDK for the client for gRPC service communication. If you prefer to expose gRPC
without maintaining the SDKs for your consumers, then it is better to share your ser-
vice definitions with them or provide a clear explanation about how to make gRPC
calls to your gRPC services.
1.3.1
Who is this book for?
This book contains many explanations, code examples, and tips and tricks supported
by real-life examples that can be useful for the following roles:
Developers who don’t know Go or microservices—They can take advantage of starting
with introductory chapters about Go, microservices, and gRPC and learn
production-grade techniques for gRPC Go microservices. Readers who already
know microservice architecture can refresh their knowledge with the resources
described in Go, which can be easily adapted to any other language.
Engineering managers—They can improve team developer productivity by adding
the best practices described in their playbooks. Applying techniques will intro-
duce good visibility over the entire product that will help to quickly onboard
new employees to the team.
Software architects—There are many handy examples and architectural designs
that can be potential references for their decisions for new products or
features. 
1.4
Production-grade use cases
As shown in figure 1.1, we will try to create an e-commerce product in this book with
Go gRPC microservices that are automated within a proper CI/CD pipeline and live
in a Kubernetes environment. In the following subsections, we’ll visit critical parts of
the diagram to see how important they are for a typical development life cycle, how
gRPC makes those parts easier to handle, and which technologies to use and where.
 There will be production-grade examples in this book in the following format:
A completed project at the end of this book
Code examples to better understand a specific topic and how it works
Automation examples, especially with GitHub Actions, to reduce repetitive
operations
Preparing artifacts for deployment
Security best practices
