6
CHAPTER 1
Introduction to Go gRPC microservices
example, we may want to retry a user delete operation in case of a network failure on
response. If the operation returns the same result even if you call it more than once,
we say this operation is idempotent. 
 If an operation is not a good fit for an idempotency use case, you must provide
proper validation errors in a response message that helps you know when to stop the
retry operation. Once you guarantee this idempotency or proper validation, it is just a
definition of the retry policy on the gRPC side. Fault tolerance also focuses on topics
such as rate limiting, circuit breakers, and fault injection, which we will see in greater
detail in chapter 6.
1.1.4
Security
In most systems, you may need a security layer to protect your product against unveri-
fied sources. gRPC encourages HTTP/2 over SSL/TLS to authenticate and encrypt
data exchanged between the client and server. More specifically, you can easily set that
authentication system up using SSL/TLS, ALTS (Application Layer Transport Secu-
rity), or a token-based authentication system, which we will cover in more detail in
chapter 6. 
1.1.5
Streaming
Sometimes you may need to divide response data into several chunks in a paginated
way that reduces bandwidth and returns them to the user quickly. Moreover, if users
are only interested in specific pages, it is not meaningful to return all the data simulta-
neously. In gRPC, in addition to pagination, you can also stream this data to the con-
sumer instead of forcing the user to do pagination to get the data iteratively.
Streaming doesn’t necessarily have to be on the server side; it can also be on the client
side or both sides simultaneously, called bidirectional streaming. In a typical streaming
use case, you open the connection once, and the data is streamed through this
opened connection. You will see different kinds of streaming use cases in this book,
particularly in chapter 5, when we implement a complete application. 
1.2
REST vs. RPC
REST (Representational State Transfer) is a widely adopted protocol for microser-
vices. Still, you may start to think about using gRPC if you have strict requirements
such as low latency, multilanguage system support, and so forth. REST is based on
HTTP 1.0 protocol that lets you exchange messages in a JSON or XML format
between the client and server. On the other hand, gRPC is based on RPC (Remote
Procedure Call) architecture that uses protocol buffers’ binary format to exchange
data over HTTP 2.0 protocol. This does not mean that REST is not compatible with
HTTP 2.0; you can set up your REST services based on that protocol with a custom
implementation so that it is a built-in feature in gRPC.
 
 
