5
1.1
Benefits of gRPC microservices
1.1.2
Code generation and interoperability
Let’s say you have a checkout service and a payment service that allow a customer to
check out a basket that then triggers a payment service call to pay for the products in
the basket. To access the payment service, you need to have request and response
models in some place, such as a shared library, to access them easily. Reusing a shared
request and response model seems convenient in microservices but is not a good prac-
tice, especially if you are using different languages for each microservice. Duplicating
models in a checkout service, typically by creating another data class to build request
objects and deserialize response objects into, is a better choice. This is all about pre-
venting an incorrect abstraction, as you may have already heard the statement, “A lit-
tle duplication is far cheaper than wrong abstraction” (https://sandimetz.com/blog/
2016/1/20/the-wrong-abstraction). There is an easier way: choose gRPC to define
your messages and generate client stubs so that you can inject this dependency and
use it directly in whatever language you prefer. We will dive deep into code generation
in chapter 3.
 gRPC tools and libraries are compatible with multiple platforms and languages,
including Go, Java, Python, Ruby, Javascript, C#, and more. The Protobuf binary wire
format, as it travels on a wire like in a network, and well-designed code generation for
almost all platforms enable developers to build performance-critical applications
while retaining cross-platform support. We will see the details of why Protobuf per-
forms well in interservice communication in chapter 3.
 gRPC is getting more popular (https://star-history.com/#grpc/grpc&Date)
because you can quickly generate client stubs to provide an SDK of your services
within different languages. You only need to decide what kind of business objects you
need to have. Once you choose which fields you need for a checkout model, you can
introduce respective request and response messages. Remember that those messages
are just definitions in IDL (Interface Definition Language) and are independent of
any language specification. After you define your message specifications, you can gen-
erate language-specific implementations so that any consumer can depend on that
source. This also means that the development language on the server side can be dif-
ferent than the client side since server-side methods can be generated as stubs on the
client side for specific languages supported by gRPC.
 In addition to business objects, you can similarly define service methods and gen-
erate implementations. Those service functions can be called after you initialize the
gRPC client on the consumer side; again, this client is generated out of the box. 
1.1.3
Fault tolerance
Fault tolerance is a system’s ability to continue operating despite system failures. An
idempotent operation has no additional effect, even if called more than once. Idem-
potency is key to a successful fault-tolerant environment since you need to be sure
that, once you retry an operation with the same parameters in case of failure or not
having an expected state, it doesn’t change the content of the actual resource. For
