12
CHAPTER 1
Introduction to Go gRPC microservices
Observable systems are achieved mainly through metrics, logs, and tracing. Tracing
context is critical to see any specific request’s life cycle, which we will see in chapter 9
in detail. Let’s say that a consumer uses an SDK to access an API via the API gateway. It
propagates requests to four to five downstream services to handle all the operations
and then returns to the customer. Having a successful response does not mean every-
thing is good; it is not good if there is a latency within this life cycle. After latency
detection, request flows can be analyzed by grouping by trace IDs that contain helpful
information. Trace IDs in the requests and response headers can be injected quickly
with a simple middleware that we will see in detail in chapter 9.
 Monitoring is a crucial part of microservice architecture, because once you decom-
pose a monolithic application into a microservice architecture, you must introduce a
solution for better visibility. Service-level metrics, overall latency, and service-to-service
call hierarchy are some solutions you may want to see in the monitoring dashboard. In
addition to system-level metrics, the logs of the services are also necessary since they
allow you to track application-level anomalies such as increasing error rates. 
 Dashboards, panels, and graphs for your system provide a good start for better
observability. Still, we should focus on introducing new metrics and creating specific
alarms based on these tools to notify you when you are away from your dashboards. As
an example, Prometheus (https://prometheus.io), an open source event monitoring
and alerting tool, can be used to collect system and application metrics, and there can
be new alert configurations based on those metrics, such as “notify once the memory
usage percentage > 80 for a specific service.” Logs are also good sources of insight
because you can calculate error rates in real time. You can even create alert configura-
tions based on log patterns within modern log management tools such as Elastic Stack
(Elasticsearch, Logstash, and other Elastic integration products).
 A good monitoring setup can provide insights into both service-to-service commu-
nication and service-to-third-party integrations. For example, it will be possible to
detect performance problems between a service and a database or a service to a third-
party API that is out of the organization’s control. 
1.4.5
Public access
Public access is important for your product and for your business’s reputation. For
example, if a user can send unlimited requests to your product, this is a sign of bad
architecture design for public access because products without a throttling system can
cause resource exhaustion on the server side, negatively affecting performance.
 API gateways are widely used to prevent these kinds of scenarios by following cer-
tain principles, such as quickly setting up a proper authentication/authorization sys-
tem, introducing rate limiting to restrict users’ request capacity, and so forth. If you
already use Kubernetes, you can handle this with built-in features such as adding
authorization and rate-limiting configuration to NGINX controllers; otherwise, you
have other options, such as using API gateway products.
