11
1.4
Production-grade use cases
 Each service can have different behavior, such as resource requests, scale factors,
language runtime, and so on. Again, they are just configurations within Kubernetes
deployments that can be appropriately configured for each service. For example, say
the Product service needs more capacity or scaling factors than other services since
most customers search and view products during the day. You don’t need to simultane-
ously scale all the services in Kubernetes like you do in a monolithic application. This
can be handled by adding scaling factors and resource capacity to specific services.
 The main output for each service will be a cloud-native application, which means
you can deploy this service to any other container runtime, such as AWS Fargate, AWS
ECS, even Docker for local development, and so on, with a little modification. 
1.4.3
CI/CD pipeline
There are lots of operations that are candidates for automation within the microser-
vices environment. Service artifact building, gRPC stub generation for specific lan-
guages, testing, code quality check, and deployment of services are some well-known
examples. The more automation you have for this distributed system, the less stress
you have during the development life cycle. 
 You can easily use gRPC tools to generate stubs on your local environment, but
wouldn’t it be better to generate them whenever some changes are pushed to the
remote repository? You can also generate artifacts to deploy them to an experimental
or stable environment after merging them into the main branch. Modern version con-
trol system (VCS) providers such as GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket already have that
kind of integration, so there is not much custom implementation needed for this level
of automation.
 A green check after a CI/CD job execution does not mean everything is fine; there
should be a way to check that the correct mechanism was used. Good coverage of unit tests;
proper integration tests to check third-party integrations such as MySQL, Kubernetes, or
AWS; contract testing for service-to-service communication; static code analysis; and
vulnerability checks are a good start to having a reliable codebase in the main branch.
 After a successful and reliable codebase, artifacts can be generated and tagged to
be deployed to the user acceptance testing (UAT) environment and then the produc-
tion environment for end users. Some best practices for deployment methodologies
include a rolling upgrade, canary deployment, and blue-green deployment. The main
goal with deployment is to ship the artifact, a Docker image in our case, to the Kuber-
netes environment and be prepared to roll back when needed. The decision to roll
back the operation is not easy. Still, if you have a proper monitoring system, you can
track error rates and user feedback to decide when to roll back or introduce a hotfix
to the current version. 
1.4.4
Monitoring and observability
Monitoring is a mechanism that allows teams to watch and understand the state of their
systems, and observability is a mechanism that enables teams to debug their systems.
