10
CHAPTER 1
Introduction to Go gRPC microservices
capabilities: product, cart, checkout, payment, and shipping. They connect using
their generated stubs (e.g., Checkout uses Shipping gRPC stubs to call Shipping ser-
vice functions).
 Monolith-to-microservice decomposition will replace service function calls with
network calls, which means you need to implement a fault-tolerant client for interser-
vice communication. gRPC provides basic things like connection pooling and
resource access so that service functions can be accessed using their gRPC stubs on
the client side after adding autogenerated stubs to the Consumer service as a Go
dependency. As seen in figure 1.1, the Checkout service can call the Cart service to get
cart items, the Shipping service to get the customer’s address, and the Payment service
to charge the customer’s credit card by adding respectively generated stubs of Ship-
ping, Cart, and Payment services to the Checkout service as a Go dependency. We will
look at dependency management in detail in chapter 5; you will learn how to work
with dependencies and how to automate them to generate in a CI (continuous inte-
gration) pipeline.
 Microservice architecture opens a gate to the polyglot development environment,
which is very helpful for choosing the proper language for different use cases. It also
allows the use of various technologies such as Neo4j for graph-related use cases,
MySQL if there is a need for relational table structures, or Mongo for document-based
data models. Microservice architecture also helps you to construct different small
teams to assign code ownership to a specific pool of services.
1.4.2
Container runtime
Managing an application environment may not be a real concern if you have a mono-
lithic application because you can deploy this application into a set of virtual machines,
and a typical load balancer handles traffic. Inadequate resource utilization, scaling
problems, and risky deployments encourage people to move to microservice architec-
ture. However, once you make the switch, because each service is independent, you
need to start thinking of a distributed environment that needs proper management.
 Kubernetes, an open source container orchestration platform, has already proved
itself for application deployment management and many other production-grade use
cases. The services shown in figure 1.1 will be all cloud-native applications and will
have Kubernetes deployment specs defined for use within a CI/CD pipeline. More-
over, each service will run within a container and can be scaled horizontally based on
the load.
 gRPC needs a server address to dial in to call service functions. Kubernetes’s dis-
covery system is a good fit for finding the correct address because the server address is
the service name of a microservice defined within a service spec. Suppose you have a
proper naming convention for your services. In that case, you also have perfect inte-
gration between the consumer and service, with no help from service discovery prod-
ucts to see the actual address of a specific service.
