4
CHAPTER 1
Introduction to Go gRPC microservices
and many other reasons, which we will see in detail with real-life examples in the
upcoming chapters.
 gRPC is an open source remote procedure call framework, initially developed by
Google in 2015, that helps you to connect services with built-in support for load bal-
ancing, tracing, fault tolerance, and security. The main advantage of this framework
comes from being able to generate server and client stubs (i.e., objects on the client
side that implement the same methods as the service) for multiple languages that can
be used both in consumer projects to call remote service methods and in server proj-
ects to define business logic behind those service methods.
 Microservice architecture is a form of service-oriented architecture that defines
applications as loosely coupled, fine-grained services that can be implemented,
deployed, and scaled independently. The main goal of this book is to provide
production-grade best practices for gRPC microservices so that, by the end of this book,
you will have the self-confidence to implement the entire system on your own.
1.1
Benefits of gRPC microservices
Within a typical monolithic application, calling different business activities, such as
calling a payment service from a checkout service, means accessing a class method in a
separate module, which is very easy. If you use microservices, such calls will be con-
verted to network communication. These can be TCP, HTTP, or event queue calls to
exchange data between services. Handling network calls is more challenging than call-
ing another class method, which can be managed with a simple error-handling mech-
anism such as try-catch blocks. Even monoliths are easy to use at first, but you may
need to decompose them for several reasons, including slow deployments and ineffi-
cient resource utilization that affect feature development and product maintenance.
This does not mean monoliths are bad and microservices are good; microservices also
bring challenges, which we will look at in detail in chapter 2. With the help of gRPC,
most of the challenges in microservices, such as handling network failures and apply-
ing TLS (Transport Layer Security) to service communications (see chapter 6), can be
eliminated. By using these built-in features in gRPC, you can improve both the reli-
ability of the product and the productivity of an entire team.
1.1.1
Performance
gRPC provides better performance and security than other protocols, such as REST with
JSON or XML communication, as it uses protocol buffers, and HTTP/2 over TLS is
straightforward. Protocol buffers, also known as Protobuf, are language- and platform-
neutral mechanisms for serializing structural data, which you will see in detail in chapter
3. This mechanism empowers gRPC to quickly serialize messages into small and compact
messages on both the server and client sides. In the same way, HTTP/2 enables the per-
formance with server-side push, multiplexing, and header compression, which we will
see in more detail in chapter 5.
