154
CHAPTER 6
HTML and email template patterns
Instead of parsing the template in the handler function, as listing 6.2 does, the tem-
plate is parsed once when the package is initialized. When the http handler function
is executed, the template is executed normally.
 As the benchmark test examples from chapter 5 showed, parsing a template and
reusing the parsed template is faster than parsing each time. This is a subtle, simple
way to speed up application responses.
6.1.4
When template execution breaks
All software has the potential to fail. Template execution is no exception. When tem-
plate execution fails, an error is returned. But in some cases, template execution can
fail and partial output is displayed to the end user. This can provide an experience
you want to avoid.
TECHNIQUE 34
Handling template execution failures
When templates are executed, the output is written as it walks through the template.
If a function is called, causing an error midway through the template, an error will be
returned and execution will stop. But the part of the template before the error would
already be displayed to end users.
PROBLEM
When an error happens while executing a template, you want to catch the error
before anything is displayed to the user. Instead of displaying the partially broken
pages, display something more appropriate, such as an error page.
SOLUTION
Write the output of the template to a buffer. If no errors occur, write the output of the
buffer to end users. Otherwise, handle the error.
DISCUSSION
Templates should be fairly unintelligent. They display data, and functions can be used
to format the data. Any errors in the data should be handled before templates are
used with the data, and the functions called within the templates should be for display
purposes. This keeps the separation of concerns in place and limits failures when tem-
plates are executed, which is important for streaming.
 Streaming responses is useful. When you execute a template to a response writer, end
users start to receive the page more quickly. When you buffer a response, there’s a delay
in end users receiving it. End users expect native desktop performance out of web appli-
cations, and streaming responses helps achieve that. When possible, write to output.
 But at times, the optimal case doesn’t work out. If executing templates carries a
potential for errors, you can write the output of the template to a buffer. If errors
occur, they can be handled before displaying anything to the end users. The following
listing builds on listing 6.4 to introduce a buffered output.
