258
Lesson 30  Goroutines and concurrency
To create a channel, use make, the same built-in function used to make maps and slices. 
Channels have a type that’s specified when you make them. The following channel can 
only send and receive integer values:
c := make(chan int)
Once you have a channel, you can send values to it and receive the values sent to it. You 
send or receive values on a channel with the left arrow operator (<-).
To send a value, point the arrow toward the channel expression, as if the arrow were 
telling the value on the right to flow into the channel. The send operation will wait until 
something (in another goroutine) tries to receive on the same channel. While it’s wait-
ing, the sender can’t do anything else, although all other goroutines will continue run-
ning freely (assuming they’re not waiting on channel operations too). The following 
sends the value 99:
c <- 99
To receive a value from a channel, the arrow points away from the channel (it’s to the 
left of the channel). In the following code, we receive a value from channel c and assign 
it to variable r. Similarly to sending on a channel, the receiver will wait until another 
goroutine tries to send on the same channel:
r := <-c
NOTE Although it’s common to use a channel receive operation on its own line, that’s not
required. The channel receive operation can be used anywhere any other expression can be
used.
The code in listing 30.4 makes a channel and passes it to five sleepy gopher goroutines. 
Then it waits to receive five messages, one for each goroutine that’s been started. Each 
goroutine sleeps and then sends a value identifying itself. When execution reaches the 
end of the main function, we know for sure that all the gophers will have finished sleep-
ing, and it can return without disturbing any gopher’s sleep. For example, say we have a 
program that saves the results of some number-crunching computation to online stor-
age. It might save several things at the same time, and we don’t want to quit before all 
the results have been successfully saved.
func main() {
    c := make(chan int) 
    for i := 0; i < 5; i++ {
        go sleepyGopher(i, c)
Listing 30.4 Channeled sleeping gophers: simplechan.go
Makes the channel to 
communicate over
 
