Collection Functions in Go
If you are a speaker in a conference and you are about to proceed, you might ask, “is everyone’s
cellphone turned off?”, and later in the middle of your talk, you ask “anyone wants to take a coffee
break?” Would it be really cool to ask this on large sets of data and avoid micro-managing every
stuff in an array? Ask a condition to all elements in an array in one go? This feature is baked in
Ruby, which is called the enumerable methods. The equivalent of asking the first question in Ruby
is the all? method, that will check if a certain condition for every element is met. The equivalent of
asking the latter is the any? method, which would meet the condition if every element is met. What
if we need to apply them in Go? What can we can learn from Ruby’s enumerable methods and how
to apply them in our Go program?
Since Go doesn’t have built-in enumerable methods similar in Ruby, we can learn from those Ruby
built-in methods and apply them in Go in similar scenarios we need it. In this article, we will be
discussing how we can learn and introspect those Ruby enumerable methods we enjoyed and create
analog methods that we can use in our Go programs. We will discuss each Ruby’s enumerable
methods and make an equivalent Go version. Then we will discuss more on how to use those
methods in practical applications. Ruby has many helper methods that are baked-in to the language
to conveniently process collections of data to the desired result. The first Ruby enumerable method
we will discuss is the all? method.
Predicate Method all?
In the first paragraph, we asked “Is everyone’s cellphone turned off?”, and if everyone’s cellphone is
off we can proceed with our talk. Programmatically in Ruby, we are going to use all?. This method
returns true if the resulting outcome of the array of conditions is true. Here’s the Ruby example,
wherein the all? helper is readily available in an array. The first condition is we ask if the length of
each item in the array is greater than 4, which results to true.
1
["Apple", "Orange"].all? { |fruit| fruit.length > 4 }
2
=> true
The second condition results to false, because “Apple” does not meet the condition that it must have
the length of greater than 5.
1
["Apple", "Orange"].all? { |fruit| fruit.length > 5 }
2
=> false
Applying this on Go, we would have to loop over the length of each element in the array, then we
store it in a boolean array.
