111
Type embedding
53 func sendNotification(n notifier) {
54
n.notify()
55 }
In listing 5.48, we have a final example of how interfaces provide polymorphic behav-
ior. On line 10, we have the same notifier interface that we declared in previous list-
ings. Then on lines 15 through 25, we have the declaration of a struct named user
with the implementation of the notifier interface using a pointer receiver. On lines
28 through 38, we have the declaration of a struct named admin with the implementa-
tion of the notifier interface as well. We have two concrete types implementing the
notifier interface. 
 On line 53, we have our polymorphic sendNotification function again that
accepts values that implement the notifier interface. Since any concrete type value
can implement the interface, this function can execute the notify method for any
concrete type value that’s passed in, thus providing polymorphic behavior.
40 // main is the entry point for the application.
41 func main() {
42
// Create a user value and pass it to sendNotification.
43
bill := user{"Bill", "bill@email.com"}
44
sendNotification(&bill)
45
46
// Create an admin value and pass it to sendNotification.
47
lisa := admin{"Lisa", "lisa@email.com"}
48
sendNotification(&lisa)
49 }
Finally, in listing 5.49 you see it all come together. A value of type user is created on
line 43 in the main function, and then the address of that value is passed into send-
Notification on line 44. This causes the notify method declared by the user type to
be executed. Then we do the same with a value of type admin on lines 47 and 48. In
the end, because sendNotification accepts interface values of type notifier, the
function can execute the behavior implemented by both user and admin. 
5.5
Type embedding
Go allows you to take existing types and both extend and change their behavior. This
capability is important for code reuse and for changing the behavior of an existing
type to suit a new need. This is accomplished through type embedding. It works by
taking an existing type and declaring that type within the declaration of a new struct
type. The type that is embedded is then called an inner type of the new outer type. 
 Through inner type promotion, identifiers from the inner type are promoted up
to the outer type. These promoted identifiers become part of the outer type as if they
were declared explicitly by the type itself. The outer type is then composed of every-
thing the inner type contains, and new fields and methods can be added. The outer
Listing 5.49
listing48.go: lines 40–49
