91
User-defined types
The values can also be placed on separate lines, but traditionally values are placed on
the same line with no trailing comma when using this form. The order of the values
does matter in this case and needs to match the order of the fields in the struct decla-
ration. When declaring a struct type, you’re not limited to just the built-in types. You
can also declare fields using other user-defined types.
20 // admin represents an admin user with privileges.
21 type admin struct {
22
person user
23
level
string
24 }
Listing 5.6 shows a new struct type named admin. This struct type has a field named
person of type user, and then declares a second field named level of type string.
When creating a variable of a struct type that has a field like person, initializing the
type with a struct literal changes a little.
26 // Declare a variable of type admin.
27 fred := admin{
28
person: user{
29
name:
"Lisa",
30
email:
"lisa@email.com",
31
ext:
123,
32
privileged: true,
33
},
34
level: "super",
35 }
In order to initialize the person field, we need to create a value of type user. This is
exactly what we do on line 28 in listing 5.7. Using the struct literal form, a value of
type user is created and assigned to the person field. 
 A second way to declare a user-defined type is by taking an existing type and using
it as the type specification for the new type. These types are great when you need a
new type that can be represented by an existing type. The standard library uses this
type declaration to create high-level functionality from the built-in types.
type Duration int64
Listing 5.8 shows the declaration of a type from the time package of the standard
library. Duration is a type that represents the duration of time down to the nano-
second. The type takes its representation from the built-in type int64. In the declara-
tion of Duration, we say that int64 is the base type of Duration. Even though int64 is
Listing 5.6
Declaring fields based on other struct types
Listing 5.7
Using struct literals to create values for fields
Listing 5.8
Declaration of a new type based on an int64
