Setter/Getters, Attribute Accessors and Structs
19
Questions
1. What have we learned?
Pointer receivers are a way to pass a pointer to a function.
2. Why is it useful?
It is useful because the function can use the pointer to access the data.
3. Is pointer receiver a pass-by-reference or pass-by-value?
Pointer receivers are pass-by-reference.
4. What is an equivalent attribute accessor in Golang?
Pointer receivers are an equivalent of attribute accessors in Go.
5. What is a pointer-receiver in Go?
A pointer-receiver is a function that takes a pointer as an argument.
6. Why there’s an asterisk before the receiver type?
The asterisk before the receiver type is a pointer receiver, which means it can be accessed and
mutated directly.
Value Receiver
Value receiver is pass-by-value, which means that we pass the actual value or a resulting value to a
variable. Value receivers will create a new independent variable copying the original value per each
assignment.
There are two functions in our previous example that utilize a value receiver function: those methods
where the receiver type does not start with an asterisk, namely, the change_item and items functions
which are also a method for basket struct.
You might ask: Why does change_item mutate the value of the basket struct, does this mean that
value receiver is also a setter? And the same with the pointer receiver?
You can modify the parameter values but changes is not forwarded to the original variable. It is
possible to have modification on existing variables with records, and value receivers can be setters
of an initialized variable. However, any modifications to the variable will not reflect on new struct
records. We still need to create the struct first, initialize it separately, before we can pass values to
the new struct record.
Value receivers are ideal for concurrent applications because it does not modify the original reference,
but creates a new copy of the reference, making value receivers thread-safe. To explain this much
further, let’s go back to our example above.
In our pointer receiver example, we used append to append a produce in a newly initialized basket
array. The change_item mutates an already initialized basket variable but it cannot mutate the struct
basket directly. Here’s the general form of creating a value receiver.
