26
CHAPTER 2
Code and project organization
approach to follow is similar to what we described in the previous section: abstractions
should be discovered, not created. This means that it’s not up to the producer to force a
given abstraction for all the clients. Instead, it’s up to the client to decide whether it
needs some form of abstraction and then determine the best abstraction level for its
needs.
 In the previous example, perhaps one client won’t be interested in decoupling its
code. Maybe another client wants to decouple its code but is only interested in the
GetAllCustomers method. In this case, this client can create an interface with a single
method, referencing the Customer struct from the external package:
package client
type customersGetter interface {
GetAllCustomers() ([]store.Customer, error)
}
From a package organization, figure 2.6 shows the result. A couple of things to note:
Because the customersGetter interface is only used in the client package, it
can remain unexported.
Visually, in the figure, it looks like circular dependencies. However, there’s no
dependency from store to client because the interface is satisfied implicitly.
This is why such an approach isn’t always possible in languages with an explicit
implementation.
The main point is that the client package can now define the most accurate abstrac-
tion for its need (here, only one method). It relates to the concept of the Interface-
Segregation Principle (the I in SOLID), which states that no client should be forced
to depend on methods it doesn’t use. Therefore, in this case, the best approach is to
expose the concrete implementation on the producer side and let the client decide
how to use it and whether an abstraction is needed.
 For the sake of completeness, let’s mention that this approach—interfaces on the
producer side—is sometimes used in the standard library. For example, the encoding
package defines interfaces implemented by other subpackages such as encoding/json
or encoding/binary. Is the encoding package wrong about this? Definitely not. In this
Package store
Implementation
Package client
Uses
Some code
References
customersGetter
interface
Satisﬁes
Customer struct
Figure 2.6
The client package defines 
the abstraction it needs by creating its 
own interface.
