47
2.12
#12: Project misorganization
NOTE
In 2021, Russ Cox, one of the core maintainers of Go, criticized this
layout. Mainly, a project lives under the GitHub golang-standards organiza-
tion despite not being an official standard. In any case, we must bear in mind
that, regarding project structure, there’s no mandatory convention. This lay-
out may be helpful for you or not, but what’s important here is that indeci-
sion is the only wrong decision. Hence, agree on a layout to keep things
consistent in your organization so that developers don’t waste time switching
from one repository to another.
Now, let’s discuss how to organize the main logic of a Go repository. 
2.12.2 Package organization
In Go, there is no concept of subpackages. However, we can decide to organize pack-
ages within subdirectories. If we take a look at the standard library, the net directory is
organized this way:
/net
/http
client.go
...
/smtp
auth.go
...
addrselect.go
...
net acts both as a package and a directory that contains other packages. But net/http
doesn’t inherit from net or have specific access rights to the net package. Elements
inside of net/http can only see exported net elements. The main benefit of subdirec-
tories is to keep packages in a place where they live with high cohesion.
 Regarding the overall organization, there are different schools of thought. For
example, should we organize our application by context or by layer? It depends on
our preferences. We may favor grouping code per context (such as the customer con-
text, the contract context, etc.), or we may favor following hexagonal architecture
principles and group per technical layer. If the decision we make fits our use case, it
cannot be a wrong decision, as long as we remain consistent with it.
 Regarding packages, there are multiple best practices that we should follow. First,
we should avoid premature packaging because it might cause us to overcomplicate a
project. Sometimes, it’s better to use a simple organization and have our project
evolve when we understand what it contains rather than forcing ourselves to make the
perfect structure up front.
 Granularity is another essential thing to consider. We should avoid having dozens
of nano packages containing only one or two files. If we do, it’s because we have prob-
ably missed some logical connections across these packages, making our project
harder for readers to understand. Conversely, we should also avoid huge packages
that dilute the meaning of a package name.
