51
2.15
#15: Missing code documentation
NOTE
One option could also be to use dot imports to access all the public
elements of a package without the package qualifier. However, this approach
tends to increase confusion and should, in most cases, be avoided.
Also note that we should avoid naming collisions between a variable and a built-in
function. For example, we could do something like this:
copy := copyFile(src, dst)
In this case, the copy built-in function wouldn’t be accessible as long as the copy variable
lives. In summary, we should prevent variable name collisions to avoid ambiguity. If we
face a collision, we should either find another meaningful name or use an import alias.
 In the next section, we will see a common mistake related to code documentation. 
2.15
#15: Missing code documentation
Documentation is an important aspect of coding. It simplifies how clients can con-
sume an API but can also help in maintaining a project. In Go, we should follow some
rules to make our code idiomatic. Let’s examine these rules.
 First, every exported element must be documented. Whether it is a structure, an
interface, a function, or something else, if it’s exported, it must be documented. The
convention is to add comments, starting with the name of the exported element. For
example,
// Customer is a customer representation.
type Customer struct{}
// ID returns the customer identifier.
func (c Customer) ID() string { return "" }
As a convention, each comment should be a complete sentence that ends with punc-
tuation. Also bear in mind that when we document a function (or a method), we
should highlight what the function intends to do, not how it does it; this belongs to
the core of a function and comments, not documentation. Furthermore, the docu-
mentation should ideally provide enough information that the consumer does not
have to look at our code to understand how to use an exported element.
Deprecated elements
It’s possible to deprecate an exported element using the // Deprecated: comment
this way:
// ComputePath returns the fastest path between two points.
// Deprecated: This function uses a deprecated way to compute
// the fastest path. Use ComputeFastestPath instead.
func ComputePath() {}
Then, if a developer uses the ComputePath function, they should get a warning.
(Most IDEs handle deprecated comments.)
The copy variable collides with 
the copy built-in function.
