17
2.4
#4: Overusing getters and setters
http.Handle("/fonts.css", static)
http.Handle("/fonts/", static)
http.Handle("/lib/godoc/", http.StripPrefix("/lib/godoc/",
http.HandlerFunc(staticHandler)))
}
In this example, the init function cannot fail (http.HandleFunc can panic, but only if
the handler is nil, which isn’t the case here). Meanwhile, there’s no need to create
any global variables, and the function will not impact possible unit tests. Therefore,
this code snippet provides a good example of where init functions can be helpful. In
summary, we saw that init functions can lead to some issues:
They can limit error management.
They can complicate how to implement tests (for example, an external depen-
dency must be set up, which may not be necessary for the scope of unit tests).
If the initialization requires us to set a state, that has to be done through global
variables.
We should be cautious with init functions. They can be helpful in some situations,
however, such as defining static configuration, as we saw in this section. Otherwise,
and in most cases, we should handle initializations through ad hoc functions. 
2.4
#4: Overusing getters and setters
In programming, data encapsulation refers to hiding the values or state of an object.
Getters and setters are means to enable encapsulation by providing exported methods
on top of unexported object fields.
 In Go, there is no automatic support for getters and setters as we see in some lan-
guages. It is also considered neither mandatory nor idiomatic to use getters and set-
ters to access struct fields. For example, the standard library implements structs in
which some fields are accessible directly, such as the time.Timer struct:
timer := time.NewTimer(time.Second)
<-timer.C
Although it’s not recommended, we could even modify C directly (but we wouldn’t
receive events anymore). However, this example illustrates that the standard Go
library doesn’t enforce using getters and/or setters even when we shouldn’t modify a
field.
 On the other hand, using getters and setters presents some advantages, including
these:
They encapsulate a behavior associated with getting or setting a field, allowing
new functionality to be added later (for example, validating a field, returning a
computed value, or wrapping the access to a field around a mutex).
They hide the internal representation, giving us more flexibility in what we
expose.
C is a <–chan Time field
