40
CHAPTER 3
Packaging and tooling
3.1
Packages
All Go programs are organized into groups of files called packages, so that code has the
ability to be included into other projects as smaller reusable pieces. Let’s look at the
packages that make up Go’s http functionality in the standard library:
net/http/
cgi/
cookiejar/
testdata/
fcgi/
httptest/
httputil/
pprof/
testdata/
These directories contain a series of related files with the .go extension, and provide
clear separation of smaller units of code relating to the implementation of HTTP serv-
ers, clients, and utilities to test and profile them. For example, the cookiejar package
contains code related to storing and retrieving cookies from a web session. Each pack-
age can be imported and used individually so that developers can import only the spe-
cific functionality that they need. If you’re implementing an HTTP client, you only
need to import the http package.
 All .go files must declare the package that they belong to as the first line of the file
excluding whitespace and comments. Packages are contained in a single directory.
You may not have multiple packages in the same directory, nor may you split a pack-
age across multiple directories. This means that all .go files in a single directory must
declare the same package name. 
3.1.1
Package-naming conventions
The convention for naming your package is to use the name of the directory contain-
ing it. This has the benefit of making it clear what the package name is when you
import it. If we continue with our example from the net/http package, all the files
contained within the http directory are a part of the http package. When naming
your packages and their directories, you should use short, concise, lowercase names,
because they will be typed often while you’re developing. The packages under
net/http are great examples of concise names such as cgi, httputil, and pprof.
 Keep in mind that a unique name is not required, because you import the package
using its full path. Your package name is used as the default name when your package
is imported, but it can be overridden. This is beneficial when you need to import mul-
tiple packages with the same name. We’ll discuss how this is done in section 3.2. 
3.1.2
Package main
The package name main has special meaning in Go. It designates to the Go command
that this package is intended to be compiled into a binary executable. All of the exe-
cutable programs you build in Go must have a package called main. 
