43
Imports
 For example:
import "github.com/spf13/viper"
When you try to build a program with this import path, the go build command will
search the GOPATH for this package location on disk. The fact that it represents a URL
to a repository on GitHub is irrelevant as far as the go build command is concerned.
When an import path contains a URL, the Go tooling can be used to fetch the package
from the DVCS and place the code inside the GOPATH at the location that matches the
URL. This fetching is done using the go get command. go get will fetch any specified
URL or can be used to fetch the dependencies a package is importing that are go-
gettable. Since go get is recursive, it can walk down the source tree for a package and
fetch all the dependencies it finds. 
3.2.2
Named imports
What happens when you need to import multiple packages with the same name? For
example, you could need a network/convert package for converting data that’s read
from a network and a file/convert package for converting data read from text files.
When this is the case, both of these packages can be imported by using named imports.
This is performed by giving one of the packages a new name to the left of the import
statement. 
 As an example, let’s say you were already using the fmt package that comes as part
of the standard library. Now you need to import a package named fmt that you had
created as part of your own project. You can import your own fmt package by renam-
ing the import, as demonstrated in the next listing.
01 package main
02
03 import (
04
"fmt"
05
myfmt "mylib/fmt"
06 )
07
08 func main() {
09
fmt.Println("Standard Library")
10
myfmt.Println("mylib/fmt")
11 }
The Go compiler will fail the build and output an error whenever you import a pack-
age that you don’t use. The Go team considers this a feature to eliminate code bloat
from packages that are imported but not used. Although this feature is occasionally
annoying, the Go team has put a great deal of effort into making decisions to prevent
some of the problems that you encounter in other languages. You don’t want to have
an unnecessarily large binary, filled with unused libraries, and they feel that if it’s
worth the compiler telling you about, it’s worth failing the build. Anyone who has
Listing 3.4
Renaming imports
