48
CHAPTER 3
Packaging and tooling
 
01 package main
02
03 import "fmt"
04
05 func main() {
06
fmt.Printf("The quick brown fox jumped over lazy dogs", 3.14)
07 }
This program inserts the floating-point number 3.14, but there’s no placeholder in
the formatted string. If you run go vet against this source code, you get the following
message: 
go vet main.go
main.go:6: no formatting directive in Printf call
The go vet tool won’t keep you from making huge errors in logic, or from creating
buggy code. However, as you can see from the last example, it does catch some com-
mon errors quite nicely. It’s a great idea to get in the habit of running go vet on your
code base before you commit it to a source repository. 
3.5.2
Go format
The fmt command is a favorite in the Go community. Instead of arguing about where
curly braces should go, or whether to use tabs or spaces when you indent, the fmt tool
makes these decisions moot by applying a predetermined layout to Go source code.
To invoke this code formatter, type go fmt followed by a file or package specification.
The fmt command will automatically format the source code files you specify and save
them. Here’s a before-and-after snapshot of a few lines of code run through go fmt: 
if err != nil { return err }
After running go fmt on this code, you’ll get the following: 
if err != nil {
return err
}
Many Go developers configure their development environment to perform a go fmt
on save or before committing to a code repository. Do yourself a favor and configure
this right now. 
3.5.3
Go documentation
There’s another tool that will make your Go development process easier. Go has two
ways to deliver documentation to developers. If you’re working at a command
prompt, you can use the go doc command to print documentation directly to your ter-
minal session. You can view a quick reference for a command or package without leav-
ing your terminal. But if a browsable interface is more your speed, you can use the
Listing 3.8
Working with go vet
