77
3.9
#25: Unexpected side effects using slice append
NOTE
Another common mistake is to invert the order of the arguments
when calling copy. Remember that the destination is the former argument,
whereas the source is the latter.
Let’s also mention that using the copy built-in function isn’t the only way to copy slice
elements. There are different alternatives, the best known being probably the follow-
ing, which uses append:
src := []int{0, 1, 2}
dst := append([]int(nil), src...)
We append the elements from the source slice to a nil slice. Hence, this code creates a
three-length, three-capacity slice copy. This alternative has the advantage of being
done in a single line. However, using copy is more idiomatic and, therefore, easier to
understand, even though it takes an extra line.
 Copying elements from one slice to another is a reasonably frequent operation.
When using copy, we must recall that the number of elements copied to the destina-
tion corresponds to the minimum between the two slices’ lengths. Also bear in mind
that other alternatives exist to copy a slice, so we shouldn’t be surprised if we find
them in a codebase.
 Let’s continue discussing slices with a common mistake when using append. 
3.9
#25: Unexpected side effects using slice append
This section discusses a common mistake when using append, which may have unex-
pected side effects in some situations. In the following example, we initialize an s1
slice, create s2 by slicing s1, and create s3 by appending an element to s2:
s1 := []int{1, 2, 3}
s2 := s1[1:2]
s3 := append(s2, 10)
We initialize an s1 slice containing three elements,
and s2 is created from slicing s1. Then we call
append on s3. What should be the state of these
three slices at the end of this code? Can you guess?
 Following the second line, after s2 is created, fig-
ure 3.10 shows the state of both slices in memory. s1
is a three-length, three-capacity slice, and s2 is a
one-length, two-capacity slice, both backed by the
same array we already mentioned. Adding an ele-
ment using append checks whether the slice is full
(length == capacity). If it is not full, the append func-
tion adds the element by updating the backing array
and returning a slice having a length incremented
by 1.
1
2
3
ptr
len
3
cap
3
s1
ptr
len
1
cap
2
s2
Figure 3.10
Both slices are 
backed by the same array but 
with a different length and 
capacity.
