89
3.12
#28: Maps and memory leaks
1,000 customers. The map size will remain constant, so we shouldn’t worry about the
fact that a map cannot shrink.
 However, let’s say we want to store one hour of data. Meanwhile, our company has
decided to have a big promotion for Black Friday: in one hour, we may have millions
of customers connected to our system. But a few days after Black Friday, our map will
contain the same number of buckets as during the peak time. This explains why we
can experience high memory consumption that doesn’t significantly decrease in such
a scenario.
 What are the solutions if we don’t want to manually restart our service to clean the
amount of memory consumed by the map? One solution could be to re-create a copy
of the current map at a regular pace. For example, every hour, we can build a new
map, copy all the elements, and release the previous one. The main drawback of this
option is that following the copy and until the next garbage collection, we may con-
sume twice the current memory for a short period.
 Another solution would be to change the map type to store an array pointer:
map[int]*[128]byte. It doesn’t solve the fact that we will have a significant number of
buckets; however, each bucket entry will reserve the size of a pointer for the value
instead of 128 bytes (8 bytes on 64-bit systems and 4 bytes on 32-bit systems).
 Coming back to the original scenario, let’s compare the memory consumption for
each map type following each step. The following table shows the comparison.
As we can see, after removing all the elements, the amount of required memory is sig-
nificantly less with a map[int]*[128]byte type. Also, in this case, the amount of
required memory is less significant during peak times due to some optimizations to
reduce the memory consumed.
NOTE
If a key or a value is over 128 bytes, Go won’t store it directly in the
map bucket. Instead, Go stores a pointer to reference the key or the value.
As we have seen, adding n elements to a map and then deleting all the elements
means keeping the same number of buckets in memory. So, we must remember that
because a Go map can only grow in size, so does its memory consumption. There is no
automated strategy to shrink it. If this leads to high memory consumption, we can try
different options such as forcing Go to re-create the map or using pointers to check if
it can be optimized.
 For the last section of this chapter, let’s discuss comparing values in Go. 
Step
map[int][128]byte
map[int]*[128]byte
Allocate an empty map.
0 MB
0 MB
Add 1 million elements.
461 MB
182 MB
Remove all the elements and run a GC.
293 MB
38 MB
