Introduction to Microservices
4
With all the preceding issues described, we can see that at a certain point monolithic applications 
can become too big for a one-size-fits-all model. As the application grows, certain parts of it may start 
becoming independent and have different requirements, benefiting from a logical separation from 
the rest of the application. 
In the next section, we are going to see how splitting the application into microservices can solve the 
aforementioned problems and which aspects of it you should be careful with.
Pros and cons of microservices
In order to understand how to get the best results from using microservices and which issues to be 
aware of, let's review the pros and cons of the microservice model.
Benefits of microservices 
As previously described, different application components may have fundamentally different 
requirements and at certain points diverge so much that it would be beneficial to separate them. In 
this case, microservice architecture provides a clear solution by decoupling the parts of the system.
Microservices provide the following benefits to developers:
•	 Faster compilation and build time: Faster build and compilation time may play a key role in 
speeding up all development processes.
•	 Faster deployments, lower deployable size: When each part of the system is deployed separately, 
the deployable size can get so significantly smaller that individual deployments can take just a 
fraction of the time compared to monolithic applications.
•	 Custom deployment cadence: The microservice model solves the problem of following a custom 
deployment schedule. Each service can be deployed independently and follow its own schedule.
•	 Custom deployment monitoring: Some services can perform more critical roles in the system 
than others and may require more fine-grained monitoring and extra checks.
•	 Independent and configurable automated testing: Services may be configured to perform 
different automated tests as a part of the build and deployment pipeline. Additionally, the scope 
of checks can be reduced for individual microservices, that is, we don't need to perform tests for 
the entire application, which may take longer.
•	 Cross-language support: It is no longer required to run an application as a single executable, 
so it is possible to implement different parts of the system using different technologies, finding 
the best fit for each problem.
•	 Simpler APIs: Fine-grained APIs are one of the key aspects of microservice development and 
having clear and efficient APIs helps to enforce the right composition of the system.
