Pros and cons of microservices
5
•	 Horizontal scaling: Microservices are easier and often cheaper to scale horizontally. Monolithic 
applications are usually resource-heavy and running them on numerous instances could be 
quite expensive due to high hardware requirements. Microservices, however, can be scaled 
independently. So, if a particular part of the system requires running on hundreds or thousands 
of servers, other parts don't need to follow the same requirements.
•	 Hardware flexibility: Splitting an application often means reducing the hardware requirements 
for most parts of the system. It provides more flexibility in choosing the hardware or cloud 
providers to execute applications.
•	 Fault isolation: Service decoupling provides an efficient safety mechanism to prevent major 
issues on partial system failures.
•	 Understandability: Services are easier to understand and maintain due to lower code base sizes.
•	 Cost optimization: Running most application components on lower-grade instances compared 
to expensive high-resource monolithic instances may result in significant cost savings for the 
company.
•	 Distributed development: Removing the coupling between the components helps achieve more 
independence in code development, which can play an important role in distributed teams.
•	 Ease of refactoring: In general, it is much easier to perform refactoring for microservices due 
to the lower scope of changes and independent release and testing processes, which helps detect 
possible issues and reduce the scope of failures.
•	 Technological freedom: With microservice architecture, it is much easier to switch to new 
technologies given that each service is smaller in size and is structurally independent of the 
others. This can play a key role in companies with an open and experimental development 
culture, helping find the right solutions for particular problems and keep their technological 
stack up to date.
•	 Independent decision-making: Developers are free to choose programming languages, 
libraries, and tools that fit their needs the best. This does not, however, imply that there should 
be no standardization, but it is often highly beneficial to achieve a certain degree of freedom 
for distributed decision-making.
•	 Removing unnecessary dependencies: It is easy to miss detecting unwanted dependencies 
between the components of a monolithic application given the tighter coupling of the components. 
Microservice architecture helps you notice unwanted dependencies between components and 
restricts the use of certain services to particular parts of the application.
As we can see, microservices bring a high degree of flexibility and help to achieve a higher level of 
independence between the components. These aspects may be instrumental to the success of a large 
development team, allowing them to build and maintain independent components separately. However, 
any model comes at its own cost, and in the next section, we are going to see the challenges you could 
face with a collection of microservices.
