When to use microservice architecture
7
being proactive in solving them is the key to success – the benefits that we have described earlier can 
easily outweigh the possible issues.
In the next section, we are going to summarize when to use the microservices and learn some best 
practices for working with them.
When to use microservice architecture
We have covered the benefits and common issues of microservices, providing a good overview of the 
applicability of using the microservice architecture model in the application. Let's summarize the key 
points of using the microservice model, which are the following:
•	 Don't introduce microservices too early: Don't use the microservice architecture too early 
if the product is loosely defined or can go through significant changes. Even when developers 
know the exact purpose of the system, there are high chances of various changes in the early 
stages of the development process. Starting from a monolithic application – and splitting it 
over time once there are clearly defined business capabilities and boundaries – helps reduce 
the amount of work and establish the right interfaces between the components.
•	 No size fits all: Each company is unique and the final decision should depend on many 
factors, including the size of the team, its distribution, and geography. A small local team may 
be comfortable working with a monolithic application, whereas a geographically distributed 
team may highly benefit from splitting the application into multiple microservices to achieve 
higher flexibility. 
Additionally, let's summarize the best practices of using the microservice architecture model for 
applications, which are the following:
•	 Design for failure: In a microservice architecture, there are many interactions between the 
components, most of which are happening via remote calls and events. This increases the chance 
of various failures, including network timeouts, client errors, and many more. Build the system 
thinking of every possible failure scenario and different ways to proceed with it.
•	 Embrace automation: Having more independent components requires much stricter checks 
in order to achieve stable integration between the services. Investing in solid automation is 
absolutely necessary in order to achieve a high degree of reliability and ensure all changes are 
safe to be deployed.
•	 Don't ship hierarchy: It is a relatively common practice to split the application into services based 
on the organizational structure, where each team may be responsible for its own service. This 
model works well if the organizational structure perfectly aligns with the business capabilities 
of the microservices, but quite often this is not the case. Instead of using a service-per-team 
model, try to define the clear domains and business capabilities around which the code is 
structured and see how the components interact with each other. It is not easy to achieve perfect 
composition, but you will be highly rewarded for it.
