Summary
9
•	 Community support: The Go community is among the biggest in the industry and the most 
popular libraries get enough support and maintenance.
•	 Ease of writing concurrent code: Concurrent calls are very common in microservice application 
logic - microservices often call multiple other services and combine their results. Writing 
concurrent code in Golang can be a fairly trivial task when utilizing the built-in sync package 
and core language features, such as channels and Goroutines.
The growth of the Go community has increased the rate of development of additional libraries for the 
language and resulted in the creation of the entire ecosystem of tools, powering application logging, 
debugging, and implementations of all widely used networking protocols and standards. The community 
keeps growing and the rate of new releases is only accelerating.
Summary
We have discussed the key aspects of the microservice development model, including the motivation 
to use it, the common benefits, and the possible challenges. You have learned that the microservice 
model brings many advantages, helping you achieve a higher degree of flexibility. It also comes with 
its own costs, which often include additional complexity and a lack of uniformness in the system. 
Microservice architecture requires you to think about these problems proactively in order to address 
them before they become big issues.
In the next chapter, we are going to start our journey into microservice development with the Go 
language. You will learn the important basics of the Go programming language and we will scaffold 
our microservices, which we are going to improve throughout the rest of the book.
Further reading
•	 A collection of resources on microservice development: https://microservices.io/
•	 Overview of the microservice architecture model: https://martinfowler.com/
articles/microservices.html
•	 15 best practices for building microservices: https://www.bmc.com/blogs/
microservices-best-practices/
