}
As you can see in the Go code, we have a structure defined as Reminder which
includes as attributes, Name, Due, ID. We are also creating a new list of these
reminder instances. At that point, we generate a new template by calling
template.New("reminders").Parse(tmpl) that will read in the template string.
You could also use ParseFiles instead of Parse, if you had a file or several you
wanted to read in. It is much easier to work with templates as files, as opposed to
strings within the application. It is important to note that in a web service it is
often best to perform the parsing of the template files at the entry point of the
application instead of parsing the templates for every single request. Parsing the
templates for every single request would lead to a lot of waste, and should be
avoided.
After we have parsed the file, we need to create the data structure that we will
feed into the template engine, namely a structure that includes attributes for
Title and Reminders that we reference from within the template. With tmplData
populated as an anonymous struct, we are able to feed the tmplData into the
template with the t.Execute method, which takes in as parameters an
io.Writer and interface{} data. Alternatively, instead of using a struct to
contain the data for the template it is possible to use a map structure instead.
As you can see, within the syntax of the template language, there are conditions
such as the else on the range. That specifically says if there are no entries within
Reminders, perform the else block.
The following is a high-level outline of the capabilities of the template engine,
so that you will be equipped to make use of all of the features included in Go
templates:
{{/* comment */}}
Comments are discarded and will not show up within the rendered
output
Comments may be multiple lines, though you are not able to nest
comments
{{pipeline}}
Think of a pipeline as a contextual denoted variable, such as
{{.Title}}
This will print out the variable using the default output representation
