97
Function declarations
fmt.Println("Hello, playground")
fmt.Println(186, "seconds")
The function declaration in the documentation may look a bit strange, because it uses 
features we haven’t yet covered:
func Println(a ...interface{}) (n int, err error)
The Println function accepts a single parameter, a, but you’ve already seen that passing it 
multiple arguments is possible. More specifically, you can pass the Println function a 
variable number of arguments, a feature indicated by the ellipsis (…). There’s a special 
term for this: Println is said to be a variadic function. The parameter a is a collection of the 
arguments passed to the function. We’ll return to variadic functions in lesson 18.
The type of the a parameter is interface{}, known as the empty interface type. We won’t be 
covering interfaces until lesson 24, but now you know that this special type is what 
enables Println to accept an int, float64, string, time.Time, or any other type without the Go 
compiler reporting an error.
The combination of variadic functions and the empty interface, written together as 
…interface{}, means you can pass Println any number of arguments of any type. It does a 
good job of displaying whatever you throw at it.
NOTE So far we’ve been ignoring the two results that Println returns, even though ignoring
errors is considered a bad practice. Good error-handling practices are covered in lesson 28.   
Quick check 12.1 
1
Do you call a function with arguments or parameters?
2
Does a function accept arguments or parameters?
3
How does a function with an uppercase first letter (Contains) differ from one with a lower-
case first letter (contains)?
4
What does the ellipsis (…) in a function declaration indicate?
QC 12.1 answer 
1
Arguments
2
Parameters
3
Lowercase indicates functions that can only be used by the package they are declared in,
whereas capitalized functions are exported for use anywhere.
4
The function is variadic. You can pass it a variable number of arguments.
 
