HTTP response
Very similar to the request structure, responses also contain a start-line that is
designated as the response status-line. The response may include a message body
and header fields, just as the request message is capable of doing. The following
data is included within the response line:
HTTP-Version (RFC-7230 2.6): Similar to the request HTTP-Version field
in the request-line, the HTTP-Version is the protocol major and minor
version in which the server is responding.
Status-Code (RFC-7231 6): The response status-code is a three-digit
integer code that explains the response of the server. There are five different
classes of status codes, namely informational (1xx), successful (2xx),
redirection (3xx), client Error (4xx) and server error (5xx).
Reason-Phrase: The reason-phrase of the response status-line should be
ignored by the client, as it is a textual explanation concerning the status of
the request.
Within Go, there is an http.Response type which contains all of the previously
enumerated elements within the status-line as well as a response header structure
and a message body. Typically, if you are developing a web application in Go,
you will generally only interface with the response type through the
http.ResponseWriter type defined (https://golang.org/pkg/net/http/#ResponseWriter),
which is an interface. This interface allows the developer to populate the
message header fields with the Header method, and write the status-line in the
message with the WriteHeader method. If the response requires a message body in
the response message, the http.ResponseWriter interface has a Write method which
will send the raw data as the response message body.
When looking at web application frameworks, it is important to keep in mind the
bare essentials of the protocol. The HTTP protocol is a very simple text-based
protocol, consisting of request and response messages that were designed to be
stateless. However, some very interesting and complex systems and services
have been built on top of this simple protocol. When we talk about web
