Arrays and Slices
56
1
$ ruby array.rb
2
3
foo
4
bar
In Go, there are two types of array classifications with a different type of initializations, namely the
Fixed Arrays and Slices. Both Fixed Arrays and Slices do the same thing what an array does, they
both store amounts of data that can be accessed by index. However, there are a number of differences
between the two that we will discuss further.
It is easy to be overwhelmed with unexpected behaviors of an array as experienced in high-
level programming languages like Ruby. It’s better to recognize the difference and its usage
between a fixed array and a slice in Go, which will be discussed in this article.
Questions
1. What have we learned?
Arrays are a fast and efficient way to store a fixed amount of data that you can iterate over
sequentially.
2. What is an array?
An array is a collection of data that can be accessed by index.
3. What are the array classifications in Go?
There are two types of array classifications in Go, namely the Fixed Arrays and Slices.
4. Why is it important to know the difference between fixed array and a slice in Go?
It is important to know the difference between a fixed array and a slice, because it will help
you to choose the right data structure for the right job.
5. What is the difference between fixed and slice array in Go?
The difference between a fixed array and a slice array is that a fixed array is a constant size
array, while a slice array is a variable size array.
6. How to sequentially retrieve the values of an array in Go?
Use the for loop.
7. What is a Big O Notation?
Big O Notation is a way to describe the complexity of a function or algorithm. It is a way
to describe the uncertainty of things you have to do in n number of ways. Which means
processing them and searching them will take a certain degree of steps to come up its value,
also every step involves growing complexities, resource consumption, and time spending.
8. What is the Big O Notation of an Array?
The Big O Notation of an Array is O(n).
9. What is the Big O Notation of a Map?
The Big O Notation of a Map is O(1).
