183
Summary
54
wg.Done()
55
}()
56
}
57
}
58
59
wg.Wait()
60
61
// Shutdown the work pool and wait for all existing work
62
// to be completed.
63
p.Shutdown()
64 }
On line 36 in listing 7.36, the New function from the work package is called to create
the work pool. The number 2 is passed into the call, indicating the pool should only
contain two goroutines. On lines 38 and 39 a WaitGroup is declared and initialized to
each goroutine that will be created. In this case, a goroutine for each name in the
names slice will be created 100 times. This is to create a lot of goroutines competing to
submit work to the pool. 
 On lines 41 and 43 inner and outer for loops are declared to create all the gorou-
tines. Inside each iteration of the inner loop, a value of type namePrinter is created
and provided with a name to print. Then, on line 50, an anonymous function is
declared and created as a goroutine. The goroutine calls the Run method against the
work pool to submit the namePrinter value to the pool. Once a goroutine from the
work pool receives the value, the call to Run returns. This in turn causes the goroutine
to decrement the WaitGroup count and terminate. 
 Once all the goroutines are created, the main function calls Wait on the Wait-
Group. The function will wait until all the goroutines that were created submit their
work. Once Wait returns, the work pool is shut down by calling the Shutdown method.
This method won’t return until all the work is complete. In our case, there would be
only two outstanding pieces of work by this time. 
7.4
Summary
You can use channels to control the lifetime of programs.
A select statement with a default case can be used to attempt a nonblocking
send or receive on a channel.
Buffered channels can be used to manage a pool of resources that can be
reused.
The coordination and synchronization of channels is taken care of by the
runtime.
Create a pool of goroutines to perform work using unbuffered channels.
Any time an unbuffered channel can be used to exchange data between two
goroutines, you have guarantees you can count on.
