93
Summary
However, if performance is crucial at run time, implementing our custom method
might be the best solution.
 One additional note: we must remember that the standard library has some exist-
ing comparison methods. For example, we can use the optimized bytes.Compare
function to compare two slices of bytes. Before implementing a custom method, we
need to make sure we don’t reinvent the wheel. 
Summary
When reading existing code, bear in mind that integer literals starting with 0
are octal numbers. Also, to improve readability, make octal integers explicit by
prefixing them with 0o.
Because integer overflows and underflows are handled silently in Go, you can
implement your own functions to catch them.
Making floating-point comparisons within a given delta can ensure that your
code is portable.
When performing addition or subtraction, group the operations with a similar
order of magnitude to favor accuracy. Also, perform multiplication and division
before addition and subtraction.
Understanding the difference between slice length and capacity should be part
of a Go developer’s core knowledge. The slice length is the number of available
elements in the slice, whereas the slice capacity is the number of elements in
the backing array.
When creating a slice, initialize it with a given length or capacity if its length is
already known. This reduces the number of allocations and improves perfor-
mance. The same logic goes for maps, and you need to initialize their size.
Using copy or the full slice expression is a way to prevent append from creating
conflicts if two different functions use slices backed by the same array. However,
only a slice copy prevents memory leaks if you want to shrink a large slice.
To copy one slice to another using the copy built-in function, remember that
the number of copied elements corresponds to the minimum between the two
slice’s lengths.
Working with a slice of pointers or structs with pointer fields, you can avoid
memory leaks by marking as nil the elements excluded by a slicing operation.
To prevent common confusions such as when using the encoding/json or the
reflect package, you need to understand the difference between nil and
empty slices. Both are zero-length, zero-capacity slices, but only a nil slice
doesn’t require allocation.
To check if a slice doesn’t contain any element, check its length. This check
works regardless of whether the slice is nil or empty. The same goes for maps.
To design unambiguous APIs, you shouldn’t distinguish between nil and empty
slices.
