256
CHAPTER 10
The standard library
 We would return only the first HTTP status code: in the previous example, 500.
However, Go would also log a warning:
2021/10/29 16:45:33 http: superfluous response.WriteHeader call
from main.handler (main.go:20)
This warning means we tried to write the status code multiple times and doing so was
superfluous.
 In terms of execution, the main impact would be to continue the execution of a
function that should have been stopped. For example, if foo was returning a pointer
in addition to the error, continuing execution would mean using this pointer, perhaps
leading to a nil pointer dereference (and hence a goroutine panic).
 The fix for this mistake is to keep thinking about adding the return statement fol-
lowing http.Error:
func handler(w http.ResponseWriter, req *http.Request) {
err := foo(req)
if err != nil {
http.Error(w, "foo", http.StatusInternalServerError)
return
}
// ...
}
Thanks to the return statement, the function will stop its execution if we end in the
if err != nil branch.
 This error is probably not the most complex of this book. Yet, it’s so easy to forget
about it that this mistake occurs fairly frequently. We always need to remember that
http.Error doesn’t stop a handler execution and must be added manually. Such an
issue can and should be caught during testing if we have decent coverage.
 The last section of this chapter continues our discussion of HTTP. We see why
production-grade applications shouldn’t rely on the default HTTP client and server
implementations. 
10.7
#81: Using the default HTTP client and server
The http package provides HTTP client and server implementations. However, it’s all
too easy for developers to make a common mistake: relying on the default implemen-
tations in the context of applications that are eventually deployed in production. Let’s
look at the problems and how to overcome them.
10.7.1 HTTP client
Let’s define what default client means. We will use a GET request as an example. We
can use the zero value of an http.Client struct like so:
client := &http.Client{}
resp, err := client.Get("https://golang.org/")
Adds the return 
statement
