Achieving reliability through development processes and culture
211
If the incident mitigation requires further investigation, include any useful links, such as links to the 
relevant application logs and dashboards. You should aim for the lowest possible incident mitigation 
time—also called time to repair (TTR)—to increase the availability of your service and improve its 
overall health.
Once the incident is mitigated, focus on prevention work to ensure you take all actions to eliminate 
its causes, as well as to improve detection and mitigation mechanisms, if needed. Multiple companies 
across the industry use the process of writing documents called incident postmortems to organize 
the learnings around incidents and make sure each incident involves enough work related to its future 
prevention. An incident postmortem generally consists of the following data:
•	 Incident title and summary
•	 Authors
•	 When and how the incident was detected and mitigated
•	 Incident context, in the form of a text or a set of diagrams that can help to understand it
•	 Root cause
•	 Incident impact
•	 Incident timeline
•	 Lessons learned
•	 Action items
A great example of a postmortem document is provided in the famous Google Site Reliability 
Engineering (SRE) book, and you can get familiar with it at the following link: https://sre.
google/sre-book/example-postmortem/.
To get to the root cause of the incident, you can use a technique called Five whys. The idea of the 
technique is to keep asking what caused the previously mentioned problem until the root cause is 
found. Let’s take the following root cause analysis (RCA) as an example to understand the technique:
Incident: Rating service returns internal errors to its API callers
Root cause analysis:
1.	
The rating service started returning internal errors to its API callers due to the rating database’s 
unavailability.
2.	
The rating database became unavailable because of an unexpectedly high request load to it.
3.	
The unexpectedly high request load to the rating service was caused by an application bug in 
the movie service.
