Reliability Overview
212
In this example, we kept finding the underlying cause of each previous issue by using the Five whys 
technique, until we got to the root cause of the incident in just three steps. The technique is very 
powerful and easy to use, and it can help you get to the root cause of even complex issues quite quickly.
Make sure you include and track action items for your incidents. Capturing the incident details and 
identifying the causes isn’t enough for making sure incidents are prevented. Prioritizing the action 
items helps ensure that the most critical ones get addressed as early as possible.
Now, let’s move to the next reliability process based on periodic testing of your possible service failure 
scenarios.
Reliability drills
As many system administrators know, it is not enough to have backups of your data to guarantee its 
durability. You also need to ensure that you can restore the data from the backups in case of any failure. 
The same principle applies to any part of your service infrastructure—to know that your services are 
resilient to particular failures, you need to perform periodic exercises, called drills.
You can perform many possible types of drills. As in the example with the database backups, if you 
have any persistent data stored in a database, you can periodically test the ability to back up and restore 
the data, verifying that your services are tolerable to database availability issues. Another example 
would be network drills. You can simulate network issues, such as connectivity loss, by updating 
service routing configuration or any other network settings to check how your services behave in 
case of network unavailability.
There are multiple benefits of performing reliability drills:
•	 Detect unexpected service failures: By performing failure drills, you can detect some 
unexpected service errors and panics, that don’t happen in the regular mode. Such issues will 
present themselves in a controlled environment, where engineers are ready to stop the drill at 
any moment and address the detected errors as early as possible.
•	 Detect unexpected service dependencies: Reliability drills often uncover unexpected 
dependencies between the services, such as transitive dependencies (service A depends on 
service B, which depends on service C) or even circular dependencies (two services require 
each other in order to operate).
•	 Ability to mitigate future incidents quicker: By knowing how the services operate in case of a 
failure and how they resolve related issues, you invest in improving future incident mitigation.
Drills are often performed as planned incidents—incidents that get announced in advance and 
follow the regular incident management process, including the work on the postmortem document. 
The drill postmortem document should include the same items as a regular incident, with a focus 
on improving the mitigation and prevention experience. Additionally, engineers should focus on 
