Reliability Overview
210
Let’s discuss the common challenges of establishing an on-call process in a microservice environment:
•	 Rotation ownership: Different services may be maintained by different teams, so there may 
be multiple on-call rotations inside a single company. A good practice is to have an explicit 
mapping between each production service and the associated on-call rotation so that it is clear 
which rotation each incident should be reported to. In Chapter 13, we will cover the ownership 
aspect of this.
•	 Cross-service issues: Some issues, such as database or network failures, can span multiple 
services, so it becomes important to have some centralized team(s) that will be able to help 
with any issues crossing the boundaries of individual services.  
Some companies may have thousands of microservices, so centralized incident response teams become 
crucial. For example, Uber has a dedicated team of engineers called Ring0 that is able to address any 
widespread incidents and coordinate the mitigation of issues that span multiple teams. Having such 
a team helps to dramatically reduce incident mitigation time.
To better understand what happens next after incidents are detected and acknowledged by the engineers, 
we are going to move now to the next topic: incident management.
Incident management
Once incidents are detected and acknowledged by the engineers, there are two other types of work 
necessary for improving the service or system reliability—mitigation and prevention. Mitigation is 
required for resolving an open issue unless it gets resolved by itself or due to some external changes 
(for example, an external API getting fixed by the owning team). Prevention work is useful for ensuring 
the issue does not happen again. Without a proper prevention response to the incident, you may keep 
fixing the same issue over and over again, spending your time and affecting the experience of your 
system’s users.
To make the incident mitigation process quick and efficient, especially in a large team where engineers 
may have different levels of understanding of the system, there should be enough documentation 
describing which actions to perform in case of an incident. Such documentation is called a runbook 
and should be prepared for as many types of detectable incidents as possible. Whenever an on-call 
engineer gets an incident notification, it should be clear from the runbook which steps to take to 
mitigate it.
A good runbook should be short and concise and provide clear actionable steps that are easy to 
understand for any engineer. Let’s take this example:
rating_service_fd_limit_reached:
  mitigation: Restart the service
