Reliability Overview
202
When designing new services or features, ask yourself which operations could be replaced with 
fallbacks in case of failures. Additionally, check which features and operations are absolutely necessary 
and which ones can be turned off in case of any failure, such as system overload or losing a part of 
a system due to an outage. Also, a good practice is to emit additional useful information related to 
failures, such as logs and metrics, and make it explicit in the code that the fallback is intentional, as 
in the preceding example.
Rate limiting and throttling
As we discussed at the beginning of this chapter, there may be a situation when a microservice is 
overloaded and can’t handle incoming requests anymore. How can we prevent or mitigate such issues?
A popular way of preventing such issues is setting a hard limit on the number of requests to be 
processed in parallel. Such a technique is called rate limiting and can be applied on multiple levels:
•	 Client level: A client limits the number of simultaneous outgoing requests.
•	 Server level: A server limits the number of simultaneous incoming requests.
•	 Network/intermediate level: The number of requests between a server and its clients is controlled 
by some logic or an intermediate component between them (for example, by a load balancer).
When a client or a server exceeds the configured number of requests, the result of a request would be 
an error that should include a special code or message, indicating that a request has been rate limited.
An example of a rate-limiting indication in the HTTP protocol is a built-in status code, 429 Too 
Many Requests. When a client receives a response with such a code, it should take this into account 
by either reducing the call rate or waiting some time until the server can process requests again.
Client- and server-level rate limiting are often done by each service instance separately: each instance 
keeps track of the current number of outgoing or incoming requests. The downside of these models 
is the inability to configure the limits on a global-service level. If you configure each service client 
instance to send no more than 100 requests per second, you may still receive 100,000 simultaneous 
requests if there are 1,000 client instances. Such a high number of simultaneous requests could easily 
overload your service.
Network-level rate limiting can potentially solve this problem: if rate limiting is performed in a centralized 
way (for example, by a load balancer that handles requests between the services), the component 
performing rate limiting can keep track of the total number of requests across all service instances.
While network-level rate limiters provide more flexibility to configure the settings, they often require 
additional centralized components (such as load balancers). Because of this, we are going to demonstrate 
how to use a simpler approach, based on the client level.
There is a popular package implementing rate limiting in Go, called golang.org/x/time/rate. 
The package implements the token bucket algorithm—a limiting algorithm that initializes a bucket of 
some configured maximal size b, decrements its value by 1 on each request, and refills it at a configured 
