CHAPTER 12
Cloud-ready applications and communications
As demonstrated with shell commands, this is similar to and inspired by the UNIX
philosophy “Do one thing and do it well.”
 Imagine that you’re building a service that transcodes media from one format to
another. A user can upload media, the format is transcoded, and later the media in
the new format is available for download. This could be built as a monolithic applica-
tion in which all elements are part of the same application, or as microservices with
different functional parts that are their own applications. Figure 12.3 shows a simple
transcoding application built using microservices.
In this application, media is uploaded through the user interface to the API server.
The API server puts the media in the file store and places a job to transcode the media
in a message queue. Transcoders pull the job from the message queue, transcode the
media into a new format, place the new file in file storage, and place a job in the
queue to notify the user that transcoding is complete. From the user interface, the
user can retrieve the transcoded file. The user interface communicates with the API
server to retrieve the file from storage.
 The following listing shows how a single microservice—in this case, the media
retrieval job—can be tersely self-contained despite being a part of a much larger appli-
cation in this architecture. In this toy example, we grab a media job from a Kafka mes-
sage queue and consume it to perform another operation.
package main
import (
    "context"
    "log"
    "os"
    "time"
    kafka "https://github.com/segmentio/kafka-go"
)
Listing 12.2
An example microservice
User
User
interface
API server
Message queue
Transcoder
Notiﬁcations
File storage
Each part of a transcoding
application is a separate
microservice that
communicates with
other parts via APIs.
Figure 12.3
A simple transcoding application broken into microservices


12.2
Microservices and high availability
func main() {
    topic := "media"
    kafkaHost := os.Getenv("KAFKA_HOST")
    if kafkaHost == "" {
        panic("KAFKA_HOST environment variable not set")
    }
    conn, err := kafka.DialLeader
    (context.Background(), "tcp", kafkaHost, topic, 0)
    if err != nil {
        panic(err)
    }
    conn.SetReadDeadline(time.Now().Add(30 * time.Second))
    batch := conn.ReadBatch(10e3, 1e6)
    message := make([]byte, 10e3) // 10KB max per message
    for {
        n, err := batch.Read(message)
        if err != nil {
            break
        }
    }
    log.Println(string(message))
    // get details of media upload, transcode media
    // or pass to another service
    batch.Close()
    conn.Close()
}
The last step in that process is something of a design decision. Relying on message
queues means that sometimes the communication happens exclusively on them. But
some microservice architectures eschew queues other than as a source of truth for log-
ging and retries, and sequentially hand off jobs to a next step in a larger process.
 Each of these microservices can be written in a different programming lan-
guage, reused on different applications, and even be consumed as a service. File
storage, for example, could be an object storage designed as its own Software as a
Service (SaaS).
 Scaling each of these services depends on the needs of the service. The transcoder
service, for example, can scale up or down depending on how much media needs to be
transcoded. The API server and notifications service can scale differently from the
transcoder, depending on the amount of resources they need. These scaling require-
ments can change from hour to hour or minute to minute, so logging can go a long way
toward designing approaches that most efficiently deal with these changes.
 Users have the expectation that services will never go offline. The days of mainte-
nance windows during which services aren’t available are in the past. Accidental out-
ages can reduce user trust and lead to lost income. One advantage of microservices is
that each service can be made highly available in a method most appropriate for that
service. Keeping an API server highly available is different from keeping a message
queue highly available, for example.
Connects to Kafka
instance via TCP
Creates a batch
for consuming
messages within
a window of sizes
Consumes
messages
Performs a next
step on the task


CHAPTER 12
Cloud-ready applications and communications
12.3
Communicating among services
One of the key parts of a microservice architecture is communication among the
microservices. If not done well, this can become a bottleneck in the performance of
an application, as services will connect in a one-to-one or one-to-many system.
 In the transcoding example in figure 12.3, four microservices are communicat-
ing with one another when uploading a new piece of media to be transcoded. If
these used REST to communicate and the communications were over Transport
Layer Security (TLS), which is typical, a significant amount of time would be spent
in network communications.
 The performance of these communications becomes more important when you
use an increasing number of microservices. Companies such as Google, which are
known for using microservice architectures, have gone so far as to create new, faster
ways to communicate among microservices and build their own networking layer that
outperforms what’s being sold on the market. We saw that with the introduction of
gRPC in chapter 11.
 Faster communication is something you can bring to your applications. As you’ll
see in this chapter, it isn’t that complicated to implement. We’ll expand on previous
examples to use REST in a more performant way.
12.3.1 Making REST faster
REST is the most common form of communication used in web and cloud services.
Although transferring representational state data over HTTP is common, it’s not
efficient or as fast as other protocols. Most REST frameworks and approaches aren’t
optimized out of the box, either. This often makes the communication layer of a
microservice architecture an easy place to speed up application performance.
REUSING CONNECTIONS
It’s not unusual for each HTTP request to be made over its own connection. Negotiat-
ing each connection takes time, including the time to negotiate TLS for secure com-
munications. Next, TCP slow-start ramps up as the message is communicated. Slow-
start is a congestion-control strategy designed to prevent network congestion and to
better distribute traffic. As a slow-start ramps up, a single message may take multiple
round-trips between the client and server to communicate.
Problem—When each request is transmitted over its own connection, a signifi-
cant amount of time is lost to network communication. How can an application
mitigate as much of this lost time as possible?
Solution—Reuse connections. Multiple HTTP requests can be made over a sin-
gle connection. That connection needs to be negotiated and ramped up for
slow-start only once. After passing the first message, others pass more quickly over
the persistent connection instead of requiring a new one.
Discussion—Whether your application is using HTTP/2 (first available in Go
1.6) or HTTP/1 and HTTP/1.1 for your communications, you can reuse


12.3
Communicating among services
connections. Go tries to reuse connections out of the box, and antipatterns
in the application are most likely to bypass this efficiency.
When connections are reused, as shown in figure 12.4, the time spent opening and
closing connections is reduced. Because TCP slow-start has already happened, the
time to communicate future messages is faster as well. This is why the second, third,
and fourth messages take less time when the connection is reused.
The server included in the net/http package provides HTTP keep-alive support. Most
systems support TCP keep-alive needed to reuse connections out of the box. As of
Go 1.6, the net/http package includes transparent support for HTTP/2, which has
other communication advantages that can make communication even faster.
NOTE
HTTP keep-alive and TCP keep-alive are different. HTTP keep-alive is
a feature of the HTTP protocol a web server needs to specifically implement.
The web server needs to periodically check the connection for incoming
HTTP requests within the keep-alive time span. When no HTTP request is
received within that time span, it closes the connection. Alternatively, TCP
keep-alive is handled by the operating system in TCP communications. Dis-
abling keep-alive with DisableKeepAlives in Go disables both forms.
Most of the problems preventing connection reuse happen in the clients used to com-
municate with HTTP servers. The first and possibly most widespread problem occurs
when custom transport instances are used and keep-alive is turned off.
 When the basic functions in the net/http package are used, such as http.Get() or
http.Post(), they use http.DefaultClient, which is configured with keep-alive enabled
and set up for a default of 30 seconds. When an application creates a custom client but
doesn’t specify a transport, http.DefaultTransport is used. http.DefaultTransport is
used by http.DefaultClient and instantiated with keep-alive enabled.
Open
Open
Open
Open
Open
Close
Close
Close
Close
Close
Each request using a
different connection
All requests sharing
the same connection
Time
Server
Server
Client
Client
Figure 12.4
Messages being passed with and without connection reuse


CHAPTER 12
Cloud-ready applications and communications
 Transporting without keep-alive can be seen in open source applications, examples
online, and even the Go documentation. The Go documentation has an example that
reads as follows:
tr := &http.Transport{
     TLSClientConfig:    &tls.Config{RootCAs: pool},
     DisableCompression: true,
}
client := &http.Client{Transport: tr}
resp, err := client.Get("https://example.com")
In this example, a custom Transport instance is used with altered certificate authori-
ties and compression disabled. In this case, keep-alive isn’t enabled. There are myriad
reasons someone might choose to disable keep-alive: to constrain resources, yield to a
load balancer, or to mitigate denial-of-service attacks, to name a few. The following
listing provides a similar example, the difference being that keep-alive is enabled.
tr := &http.Transport{
     TLSClientConfig:    &tls.Config{RootCAs: pool},
     DisableCompression: true,
     Dial: (&net.Dialer{
            Timeout:   30 * time.Second,
            KeepAlive: 30 * time.Second,
     }).Dial,
}
client := &http.Client{Transport: tr}
resp, err := client.Get("https://example.com")
One part of working with http.Transport in this way can be confusing. Setting its
DisableKeepAlives property to true disables connection reuse. Setting DisableKeep-
Alives to false doesn’t mean that connections are explicitly reused. It means you
can opt in to either HTTP or TCP keep-alive independently.
 Unless you have a reason to disable keep-alive, like the ones noted above, we sug-
gest you use it. When making many HTTP requests to the same endpoint, it generally
provides for faster performance.
 The other behavior that can prevent connection reuse occurs when the body of a
response isn’t closed. Prior to HTTP/2, pipelining was almost never implemented or
used. Pipelining allows multiple requests and their responses to be communicated in
parallel rather than in serial, as you can see in figure 12.5. Prior to HTTP/2, one
request and response needed to be completed before the next could be used. The
body of the response would need to be closed before another HTTP request and
response could use the connection.
 The following listing illustrates a common case of one response body not being
closed before another HTTP request is made.
Listing 12.3
Custom transport with connection reuse
The Dial function is configured
with a keep-alive and timeout.
This is the same configuration
as the http.DefaultTransport.


12.3
Communicating among services
func main() {
     r, err := http.Get("http://example.com")
     if err != nil {
            …
     }
     defer r.Body.Close()
     o, err := ioutil.ReadAll(r.Body)
     if err != nil {
            …
     }
     // Use the body content
     r2, err := http.Get("http://example.com/foo")
     if err != nil {
            …
     }
     defer r2.Body.Close()
     o, err = ioutil.ReadAll(r2.Body)
     if err != nil {
            …
     }
…
}
In this case, using defer isn’t optimal. Instead, the body should be closed when it’s no
longer needed. The following listing illustrates the same example, with the connec-
tion being shared because the body is closed.
func main() {
     r, err := http.Get("http://example.com")
     if err != nil {
            …
     }
Listing 12.4
Failing to close an HTTP response body
Listing 12.5
Using and closing the HTTP response quickly
Open
Close
Open
Close
In pipelining,
requests are concurrent.
Requests in serial,
one after another
Server
Client
Server
Client
Time
Figure 12.5
HTTP Pipelining compared to serial requests
Makes an HTTP
request and gets
a response
Defers closing the
body until the main()
function exits
Makes a second HTTP
request. Because the body
isn’t yet closed on the
first, a new connection
needs to be made.
Makes an HTTP
request and gets
a response


CHAPTER 12
Cloud-ready applications and communications
     o, err := ioutil.ReadAll(r.Body)
     if err != nil {
                 …
     }
     r.Body.Close()
     // Use the body content
     r2, err := http.Get("http://example.com/foo")
     if err != nil {
            …
     }
     o, err = ioutil.ReadAll(r2.Body)
     if err != nil {
                 …
     }
     r2.Body.Close()
     …
}
This subtle change to the application can affect how network connections behind the
scenes are happening and can improve the overall performance of an application,
especially as it scales.
FASTER JSON MARSHAL AND UNMARSHAL
In general, most of the communication over contemporary REST involves passing
data as JSON. The JSON marshaling and unmarshaling provided by the encoding/
json package uses reflection to figure out values and types each time. Reflection, pro-
vided by the reflect package, takes time to discern types and values each time a mes-
sage is acted on. If you’re repeatedly acting on the same structures, quite a bit of time
will be spent reflecting. We’ve touched on reflection a bit, and it’s covered in more
detail in chapter 13.
Problem—Rather than figuring out the types of data whenever JSON is mar-
shaled or unmarshaled, how can the type be figured out once and skipped on
future passes?
Solution—Use a package able to generate code that can marshal and unmarshal
the JSON. The generated code skips reflection and provides a faster execution
path with a smaller memory footprint.
Discussion—Reflection in Go is fairly fast. It does allocate memory that needs to
be garbage-collected, and there’s a small computational cost. When using opti-
mized generated code, those costs can be reduced, and you can see a perfor-
mance improvement.
Several packages are designed to do this. The following listing looks at the package
github.com/ugorji/go/codec, which is designed to work with Binc, MessagePack,
and Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) in addition to JSON. Binc,
MessagePack, and CBOR are alternative data exchange formats, though none is as
popular as JSON.
Copies the response body to
another instance and closes
the body when done with it
Makes another HTTP
request. This request
reuses the connection
made during the
previous request.


12.3
Communicating among services
//go:generate codecgen -o user_generated.go user.go
package user
type User struct {
     Name  string `codec:"name"`
     Email string `codec:",omitempty"`
}
A struct marked up for the codec package is almost the same as for the json package.
The difference is in the name codec. To generate code, the codecgen command needs
to be installed. This can be done as follows:
$ go get -u github.com/ugorji/go/codec/codecgen
After codecgen is installed, you can use it to generate code on this file, named
user.go, by executing the following command:
$ codecgen -o user_generated.go user.go
The output file is named user_generated.go. In the generated file, you’ll notice that
two public methods have been added to the User type: CodecEncodeSelf and Codec-
DecodeSelf. When these are present, the codec package uses them to encode or decode
the type. When they’re absent, the codec package falls back to doing these at runtime.
 When the codecgen command is installed, it can be used with go generate. go
generate will see the first comment line of the file, which is specially formatted for it,
and execute codecgen. To use go generate, run the following command:
$ go generate ./...
NOTE
Chapter 13 covers generators and reflection in more depth.
After the User type is ready for use, the encoding and decoding can be incorporated
into the rest of the application, as shown in the next listing.
jh := new(codec.JsonHandle)
u := &user.User{
     Name:  "Inigo Montoya",
     Email: "inigo@montoya.example.com",
}
Listing 12.6
A struct annotated for codec
Listing 12.7
Encoding an instance to JSON with codec
A code comment for the go
generate command to know how
to generate code from this file
codec can’t generate
code for main
packages. Here, the
user functionality is
in the user package.
The User struct is annotated
for codec instead of for JSON.
The Name property will be found
as “name” in the JSON file. The
difference is the case of the name.
The codec annotation will omit Email
when it generates JSON output and the
Email value is empty.
Creates a new JSON handler for the encoder. The codec
package has handlers for each type it works with.
Creates an instance of
User populated with data


CHAPTER 12
Cloud-ready applications and communications
var out []byte
err := codec.NewEncoderBytes(&out, jh).Encode(&u)
if err != nil {
     …
}
fmt.Println(string(out))
Here’s the output of this code:
{"name":"Inigo Montoya","Email":"inigo@montoya.example.com"}
Notice that the name key is lowercase, whereas the Email key has an uppercase first
letter. The User type, defined in listing 12.6, has uppercase property names leading to
key names that directly reflect that. But the Name property has a custom key of name
used here.
 The byte slice with the JSON that was created in listing 12.7 can be decoded into
an instance of User, as shown in the following listing.
var u2 user.User
err = codec.NewDecoderBytes(out, jh).Decode(&u2)
if err != nil {
     …
}
fmt.Println(u2)
Although the API to github.com/ugorji/go/codec is different from the encoding/json
package in the standard library, it’s simple enough to be easily used.
 Code generation is a somewhat common approach to solving this problem, but
you can see it adds more steps to your process. For something a little closer to optimiz-
ing the intent of the standard library, we can look to Sonic, from Bytedance, perhaps
most known as the developer of TikTok. They noticed enormous amounts of time
being lost to JSON processing and saw abnormalities in processing depending on
input size(s). In short, their approach is a just-in-time (JIT) compiler that works as a
drop-in replacement and can be a big boost when you need to handle the volume of
JSON data that could create bottlenecks. Because no application is required to imple-
ment this, you can just add the package as normal:
$ go get github.com/bytedance/sonic
Listing 12.8
Decoding JSON into an instance of a type
Creates a byte slice
to store the output
in. This will be the
generated JSON from
the instance of User.
Encodes the instance of
User into the output using
the JSON handle. The
codec package does this
in two steps that can be
done together.
Converts the byte
slice to a string
and prints it
Creates a variable to
hold the decoded JSON
Decodes the JSON by using
the JSON handler, both created
in listing 12.6, into the new
instance of the User type. The
decoder uses two steps that can
be used together. The decoder
can reuse the JSON handler.
Prints the populated
instance of User


12.4
Running on cloud servers
From there, the implementation is somewhat close to what you would expect. The
next listing shows how we might process the JSON from listings 12.7 and 12.8.
package main
import (
    "log"
    "strings"
    "github.com/bytedance/sonic"
)
func main() {
    var receiver = []map[string]interface{}{}
    jsonData := strings.NewReader(`
        [
            { "email": "inigo@montoya.example.com", "name":
            "Inigo Montoya" },
            { "email": "fezzik@example.com", "name": "Fezzik" },
        ]
    `)
    decoder := sonic.ConfigDefault.NewDecoder(jsonData)
    decoder.Decode(&receiver)
    for k := range receiver {
        log.Println(receiver[k])
    }
}
There are some minor caveats to using a package like this. Build support is limited
to certain processors, so building outside them, as with Apple’s M-series chips, will
be slower.
12.4
Running on cloud servers
When an application is being built to run in the cloud, at times you may know all the
details of the environment, but at other times information will be limited due to the way
the cloud provider implements virtualization. Building applications that are tolerant to
unknown environments will aid in the detection and handling of problems that can arise.
 At the same time, you may develop applications on one operating system and
architecture but need to operate them on another. It’s quite likely that you will
develop an application on Windows or macOS and operate it on Linux in production.
In this section, you’ll explore how to avoid pitfalls that can come from assuming too
much about an environment.
12.4.1 Performing runtime detection
It’s usually a good idea to detect the environment at runtime rather than to assume
characteristics of it in your code. Because Go applications communicate with the kernel
,
Listing 12.9
JSON decoding with Sonic
Imports the
Sonic package
Creates a receiver similar
to a struct we might use
for standard encoding
Creates a
decoder with
our JSON data
Decodes into
the structure
Iterates through the structure and
prints the value to standard out


CHAPTER 12
Cloud-ready applications and communications
one thing you need to know is that if you’re on Linux, Windows, or another system,
details beyond the kernel that Go was compiled for can be detected at runtime. This
allows a Go application to run on Red Hat Linux, Ubuntu, or any other supported OS.
Or a Go application can tell you whether a dependency is missing, which makes trou-
bleshooting much easier.
GATHERING INFORMATION ON THE HOST
Cloud applications can run in multiple environments, such as development, testing,
and production environments. They can scale horizontally, with the potential to have
many instances dynamically scheduled. They can run in multiple data centers at the
same time. Being run in this manner makes it difficult to assume information about
the environment or pass in all the details with application configuration. Instead of
knowing through configuration or assuming host environment details, it’s possible to
detect information about the environment at the application level.
Problem—How can information about a host be detected within a Go application?
Solution—The os package enables you to get information about the underlying sys-
tem. Information from the os package can be combined with information detected
through other packages, such as net, or from calls to external applications.
Discussion—The os package has the capability to detect a wide range of details
about the environment. The following list highlights several examples:
–
os.Hostname() returns the kernel’s value for the hostname.
– The process ID for the application can be retrieved with os.Getpid().
– Operating systems can and do have different path and path list separators.
Using os.PathSeparator or os.PathListSeparator instead of hardcoded
characters allows applications to work with the system they’re running on.
– To find the current working directory, use os.Getwd().
Information from the os package can be used in combination with other information
to know more about a host. If you try to look up the IP addresses for the machine an
application is running on by looking at all the addresses associated with all the inter-
faces to the machine, you can end up with a long list. That list would include the local-
host loop-back and IPv4 and IPv6 addresses, even when one case may not be routable
to the machine. To find the IP address to use, an application can look up the host-
name, known by the system, and find the associated IP address. The following listing
shows this method in action.
func main() {
     name, err := os.Hostname()
     if err != nil {
            fmt.Println(err)
            return
     }
Listing 12.10
Looking up the host’s IP addresses via the hostname
Retrieves the
hostname per
the kernel


12.4
Running on cloud servers
     addrs, err := net.LookupHost(name)
     if err != nil {
            fmt.Println(err)
            return
     }
     for _, a := range addrs {
            fmt.Println(a)
     }
The system knows its own hostname, and looking up the address for that hostname
will return the local one. This is useful for an application that can be run in a variety
of environments or scaled horizontally. The hostname and address information could
change or have a high rate of variability.
 Go applications can be compiled for a variety of operating systems and run in
various environments. When applications can detect information about their envi-
ronment rather that assuming it, it removes the opportunity for bugs or other unex-
pected situations.
DETECTING DEPENDENCIES
In addition to communicating with the kernel or base operating system, Go applica-
tions can call other applications on the system. This is typically accomplished with the
os/exec package from the standard library. But what happens if the application being
called isn’t installed? We can sometimes get nebulous errors from the operating sys-
tem. Assuming that a dependency is present can lead to unexpected behavior, and a
failure to detect any problems in a reportable way makes detecting the problem in
your application more difficult.
Problem—How can you better predict success calling another application before
doing so?
Solution—Prior to calling a dependent application for the first time, check
whether the application is installed and available for you to use. If the applica-
tion isn’t present, log an error to help with troubleshooting.
Discussion—We’ve already talked about how Go applications can run on a vari-
ety of operating systems. If an application is compiled for Linux, it could be
running on a variety of distributions with different applications installed. If
your application relies on another application, it may or may not be installed.
This becomes more complicated with the number of distributions available and
used in the cloud. Some specialized Linux distributions for the cloud are small,
with limited or virtually no commands installed.
Any time a cloud application relies on another application being installed, it should
validate that dependency and log the absence of the missing component. This is rela-
tively straightforward to do with the os/exec package. The following listing provides a
function to perform detection.
Looks up the IP
addresses associated
with the hostname
Prints each of the IP addresses


CHAPTER 12
Cloud-ready applications and communications
func checkDep(name string) error {
     if _, err := exec.LookPath(name); err != nil {
            es := "Could not find '%s' in PATH: %s"
            return fmt.Errorf(es, name, err)
     }
     return nil
}
This function can be used within the flow of an application to check whether a depen-
dency exists. The following snippet shows an example of checking and acting on an error:
err := checkDep("fortune")
if err != nil {
     log.Fatalln(err)
}
fmt.Println("Time to get your fortune")
In this example, the error is logged when a dependency isn’t installed. Logging isn’t
always the action to take. There may be a fallback method to retrieve the missing
dependency or an alternative dependency to use. Sometimes, a missing dependency
may be fatal to an application, and other times, it can skip an action when a depen-
dency isn’t installed. When you know something is missing, you can handle the situa-
tion appropriately.
 Some of this can be mitigated in the containerization process as well. As part of a
Docker build, we should attempt to gather and install all the needed dependencies.
But this on its own won’t ensure the build is functional, which is why building these
types of checks directly into a cloud-ready application will give your application a
stronger safety net.
12.4.2 Building for the cloud
There’s no one hardware architecture or operating system for the cloud. You may
write an application for the AMD64 architecture running on Windows and later find
you need to run it on ARM8 and a Linux distribution. Building for the cloud requires
designing to support multiple environments, which is easier handled up front in
development and is something the standard library can help you with.
 In addition to the variety of environments in cloud computing, it’s not unusual to
develop a Go application on Microsoft Windows or Apple’s macOS and want to oper-
ate it on a Linux distribution in production, or to distribute an application via the
cloud with versions for Windows, macOS, and Linux. Frequently, an application is
developed in one operating system but needs to run in a different one.
Problem—How can you compile for architectures and operating systems other
than the one you’re currently on?
Listing 12.11
Function to check whether the application is available
Checks whether the
passed-in dependency is
in one of the executable
PATHs. If not present, an
error is generated.
Returns an error if the
dependency isn’t found
Returns nil if there
was no error


12.4
Running on cloud servers
Solution—The go toolchain provides the ability to cross-compile to other archi-
tectures and operating systems. In addition to the go toolchain, the third-party
tool gox allows you to cross-compile multiple binaries in parallel. You also can
use packages such as filepath to handle differences between operating systems
instead of hardcoding values, such as the POSIX path separator /.
Discussion—The compiler installed with the go toolchain can cross-compile out
of the box. This is done by setting the GOARCH and GOOS environment variables
to specify the architecture and operating system. GOARCH specifies the hardware
architecture such as amd64, 386, or arm, whereas GOOS specifies the operating
system such as windows, linux, darwin, or freebsd.
The following example provides a quick illustration:
$ GOOS=windows GOARCH=386 go build
This tells go to build a Windows binary for the 386 architecture. Specifically, the
resulting executable will be of the type PE32 executable for MS Windows (console)
Intel 80386 32-bit.
WARNING
If your application is using cgo to interact with C libraries, complica-
tions can arise. Be sure to test the applications on all cross-compiled platforms.
If you want to compile to multiple operating systems and architectures, one option is
the aforementioned gox, which enables building multiple binaries concurrently, as
shown in figure 12.6.
You can install gox as follows:
$ go get -u github.com/mitchellh/gox
gox
linux amd64 build
linux 386 build
windows amd64 build
darwin amd64 build
...
The operating system and architecture
combinations to build are passed into gox.
The binaries are built concurrently.
Figure 12.6
gox builds binaries for different operating systems and architectures concurrently.


CHAPTER 12
Cloud-ready applications and communications
When gox is installed, you can create binaries in parallel by using the gox command,
similar to go build. What gox brings to the table is the parallelized builds. If you don’t
need this, the go toolchain will work out of the box. The following listing provides an
example of building an application for macOS, Windows, and Linux on both the
AMD64 and 386 architectures.
$ gox \
  -os="linux darwin windows " \
  -arch="amd64 386" \
  -output="dist/{{.OS}}-{{.Arch}}/{{.Dir}}" .
When building binaries in other operating systems—especially when operating them
in the cloud—it’s a best practice to test the result before deploying. This way, any envi-
ronment bugs can be detected before deploying to that environment. You can do this
with multiple Dockerfile implementations, but compiling locally is definitely a faster
and more lightweight approach.
 Besides compiling for different environments, differences between operating systems
need to be handled within an application. Go has two useful parts to help with that.
 First, packages provide a single interface that handles differences behind the
scenes. One of the most well-known is the difference between path and path list sep-
arators. On Linux and other POSIX-based systems, these are / and :, respectively.
On Windows, they’re \ and ;. Instead of assuming these, use the path/filepath
package to make sure any paths are handled safely. This package provides features
such as the following:

filepath.Separator and filepath.ListSeparator—Represent the appropri-
ate path and list separator values on any operating system the application is
compiled to. You can use these when you need direct access to the separators.

filepath.ToSlash—Takes a string representing a path and converts the separa-
tors to the correct value.

filepath.Split and filepath.SplitList—Split a path into its parts or split a
list of paths into individual paths. Again, the correct separators will be used.

filepath.Join—Joins a list of parts into a path, using the correct separator for
the operating system.
The go toolchain also has build tags that allow code files to be filtered, based on
details such as operating system and architecture when being compiled. A build tag is
at the start of a file and looks like this:
// +build !windows
Listing 12.12
Cross-compiling an application with gox
Uses the os flag to specify
multiple operating systems
The arch flag is used to specify
one or more architectures.
A template is used to specify the
output location. This way, binaries
with the same name end up in
different identifying directories.


12.5
Performing runtime monitoring
This special comment tells the compiler to skip this file on Windows. Build tags (or
build constants) can have multiple values. The following example skips building a file
on Linux or macOS.
// +build !linux,!darwin
followed by a newline. These values are linked to GOOS and GOARCH options.
 Go also provides the ability to name files in such a way that they’re picked up for
the different environments. foo_windows.go would be compiled and used for a Win-
dows build, and foo_386.go would be used when compiling for the 386 (sometimes
called x86) hardware architecture. These features enable applications to be written
for multiple platforms while working around their differences and tapping into what
makes them unique.
12.5
Performing runtime monitoring
Monitoring is a critical part of operating applications in production. It’s typical to
monitor running systems to find problems, to detect when the load has reached levels
that require scaling up or down, or to understand what’s going on within an applica-
tion to speed it up.
 The easiest way to monitor an application is to write errors, problems, and other
details to a log. The log subsystem can write to disk and another application can read
it or the log subsystem can push it out to a monitoring application.
 Go applications include more than application code or code from libraries. The
Go runtime sits in the background, handling the concurrency, garbage collection,
threads, and other aspects of the application.
 The runtime has access to a wealth of information. That includes the number of
processors seen by the application, current number of goroutines, details on memory
allocation and use, details on garbage collection, and more. This information can be
useful for identifying problems within the application or triggering events such as hor-
izontal scaling. As we did with file access, we could also generalize our logging process
to store logs directly in the respective cloud provider’s logging service.
Problem—How can your application log or otherwise monitor the Go runtime?
Solution—The runtime and runtime/debug packages provide access to the infor-
mation within the runtime. Retrieve information from the runtime by using these
packages and write it to the logs or other monitoring service at regular intervals.
Discussion—Imagine that an imported library update includes a serious bug
that causes the goroutines it created to stop going away. The goroutines slowly
accumulate so that millions of them are being handled by the runtime when it
should have been hundreds. Monitoring the runtime enables you to see when
something like this happens.
When an application starts up, it can start a sidecar goroutine to monitor the runtime
and write details of resource use to a log. Running in a goroutine allows you to run the


CHAPTER 12
Cloud-ready applications and communications
monitoring and write to the logs concurrently, alongside the rest of the application, as
the following listing shows.
func monitorRuntime() {
     log.Println("Number of CPUs:", runtime.NumCPU())
     m := &runtime.MemStats{}
     for {
            r := runtime.NumGoroutine()
            log.Println("Number of goroutines", r)
            runtime.ReadMemStats(m)
            log.Println("Allocated memory", m.Alloc)
            time.Sleep(10 * time.Second)
     }
}
func main() {
     go monitorRuntime()
     i := 0
     for i < 40 {
            go func() {
                   time.Sleep(15 * time.Second)
            }()
            i = i + 1
            time.Sleep(1 * time.Second)
     }
}
It’s important to know that calls to runtime.ReadMemStats momentarily halt the Go
runtime, which can have a performance effect on your application. You don’t want to
do this often, and you may want to perform operations that halt the Go runtime only
when in a debug mode.
 Organizing your runtime monitoring this way allows you to replace writing to the log
with interaction with an outside monitoring service. If you were using one of the services
from a third-party monitoring service, you would send the runtime data to their API or
invoke a library to do this. The runtime package has access to a wealth of information:
Information on garbage collection, including when the last pass was, the heap
size that will cause the next to trigger, how long the last garbage collection pass
took, and more
Heap statistics, such as the number of objects it includes, the heap size, how
much of the heap is in use, and so on
The number of goroutines, processors, and cgo calls
We’ve found that monitoring the runtime can provide unexpected knowledge and
highlight bugs. It can help you find goroutine problems, memory leaks, or other
Listing 12.13
Monitoring an application’s runtime
A function to
monitor the
runtime
When monitoring starts,
reports the number of
processors available
Loops continuously,
pausing for 10
seconds between
iterations
Logs the number of
goroutines and amount
of allocated memory
Loops continuously,
pausing for 10 seconds
between iterations
When the application
starts, begins monitoring
the application
Creates example goroutines
and memory use while the
application runs for 40
seconds


Summary
problems. In the next chapter, you’ll explore communicating between cloud services
by using techniques other than REST APIs.
Summary
We can work with various cloud providers while avoiding vendor lock-in.
Go applications can be containerized with separated build and run steps.
We can gather information about the host rather than assuming it.
We can compile applications for varying operating systems and avoid operating
system lock-in.
We can reuse connections to improve performance by avoiding repeated TCP
slow-start, congestion-control ramp-ups, and connection negotiations.
If and when JSON marshaling and unmarshaling becomes a bottleneck, we have
options in the form of third-party libraries to enable faster JSON processing.
Monitoring the Go runtime detects problems and details about a running
application.


Reflection,
code generation,
and advanced Go
In chapter 12, we explored using Go in the context of tooling around deploy-
ment, looking at service communication and discovery. In this chapter, we turn
our attention to some of Go’s most interesting advanced features. We’ll begin
with Go’s reflection system, which refers to a program’s runtime ability to exam-
ine its own structure. Although Go’s reflection subsystem isn’t as versatile as Java’s,
it’s still powerful.
 Another feature that has enjoyed novel use is the annotation of structs. You’ll
see in the second part of the chapter how to write custom tags for struct fields. As
useful as Go’s reflection system is, though, it’s sometimes cleaner to avoid complex
and expensive runtime reflection and instead write code that itself writes code; this
will be the third focus of the chapter. Finally, although Go now has generics, code
This chapter covers
Using values, kinds, and types from Go’s
type reflection system
Parsing custom struct annotations
Working with other languages via C/C++
interoperability
Writing code generators for use with the
go generate tool


13.1
Three features of reflection
generation has a niche role in developing in Go, and we will look at that in compari-
son with generics.
13.1
Three features of reflection
Software developers use reflection to examine objects during runtime. In a strongly
typed language like Go, you may want to find out whether a particular object satis-
fies an interface, discover what its underlying kind is, or walk over its fields and
modify the data—any task that might require more in-depth exploration of a type
and its capabilities.
 Go’s reflection tools are located inside the reflect package. We’ve encountered
them a few times earlier in this book. To understand those tools, we need to define a
few terms. You need to understand three critical features when working with Go’s
reflection mechanism: values, types, and kinds.
 You might approach the first term, value, by thinking of a variable and its underly-
ing data. A variable is a name that points to a piece of data, as illustrated in figure 13.1.
(The figure labels this “Variable name.”) Depending on the type, the value may be
nil; it may be a pointer, which in turn references a value somewhere else; or it may be
a nonempty piece of data. With x := 5, for example, the value of x is 5. For var b
bytes.Buffer, the value of b is an empty buffer. With myFunc := strings.Split, the
value of myFunc is a function. In the reflect package, the type reflect.Value rep-
resents any of these values.
As Go is a typed language, each value in Go has a single, specific type associated with
it. With var b bytes.Buffer, that type is bytes.Buffer. For any possible reflect
.Value in Go, you can discover its type. Type information is accessible through the
reflect.Type interface.
 Finally, Go defines numerous primitive kinds, such as struct, ptr (pointer), int,
float64, string, slice, func (function), and so on. The reflect package enumerates all
the possible kinds with the type reflect.Kind. (Note that in figure 13.1, the value of
type string also has the kind string.)
 The typical tasks you perform when working with reflection use these three con-
cepts. Usually, reflection begins by taking a value and then inspecting it to learn about
its contents, its type, and its kind. You can consider a broader description of what a
type is comprised.
ﬁrstName := "Inigo"
var
= "Montoya"
lastName string
Variable name
Type
Value
Figure 13.1
Variable and value
declarations


CHAPTER 13
Reflection, code generation, and advanced Go
13.1.1 Switching based on type and kind
One of the most frequent uses of Go’s reflection system is identifying either the type
or kind of a value. Go has various tools for learning about the type and kind of a par-
ticular value.
Problem—You want to write a function that takes generic values (interface{}s)
and then does something useful with them based on underlying types.
Solution—Go provides various methods for learning this information, ranging
from the type switch to the reflect.Type and reflect.Kind types. Each has
subtle strengths. Here, you’ll look at type switches and then employ the reflect
package to build a kind switch.
Discussion—Suppose that you want to write a function with the signature sum(…
interface{}) float64. You want this function to take a variadic argument of
arbitrary types. You want it to convert the values to float64 and then sum them.
The most convenient tool that Go provides for doing this is the type switch.
With this special case of the switch control structure, you can perform opera-
tions based on the type of a value, instead of the data contained in a value. As
you read through common Go libraries, you’ll frequently encounter type
switches (though using kinds and switches, which you’ll see later in this sec-
tion, is rare). These also come up somewhat often inside generic functions,
for obvious reasons. Let’s start with a simple (though incomplete) example in
the next listing.
package main
import (
     "fmt"
     "strconv"
)
func main() {
     var a uint8 = 2
     var b int = 37
     var c string = "3.2"
     res := sum(a, b, c)
     fmt.Printf("Result: %f\n", res)
}
func sum(v ...interface{}) float64 {
     var res float64 = 0.0
     for _, val := range v {
            switch val.(type) {
            case int:
                   res += float64(val.(int))
            case int64:
                   res += float64(val.(int64))
            case uint8:
                   res += float64(val.(uint8))
Listing 13.1
Sum with type switch
Sums a uint8,
an int, and a
string
Loops through all the values given and
switches over them based on type
For each type that you
support (int, int64, uint8,
string), converts to float64
and sum


13.1
Three features of reflection
            case string:
                   a, err := strconv.ParseFloat
                   (val.(string), 64)
                   if err != nil {
                          panic(err)
                   }
                   res += a
            default:
                   fmt.Printf("Unsupported type %T.
                   Ignoring.\n", val)
            }
     }
     return res
}
If you were to run this code, you’d get Result: 42.200000. This code illustrates the
basic use of a type switch, as well as one of its limitations compared to regular switches.
If you had more non-numeric types, you might add some generic sugar, giving meth-
ods to various types:
type myString string
func (s myString) ToFloat() (float64, error) {
    fl, err := strconv.ParseFloat(string(s), 64)
    if err != nil {
        panic(err)
    }
    return fl, nil
}
In a standard switch statement, you might combine multiple values on a single case
line: case 1, 2, 3: println("Less than four"). Combining types in a case statement
introduces complications when assigning values, so typically a type switch has one type
per line. If you were to support all of the integer types (int, int8, int16, int32, int64,
uint, uint8, uint16, uint32, and uint64), you’d need 10 separate case clauses. Although
writing similar logic for 10 kinds may feel like an inconvenience, it isn’t a problem.
But it’s important to remember that type switches operate on types (not kinds). Let’s
add a new type to the preceding example, as shown in the following listing.
package main
import (
     "fmt"
     "strconv"
)
type MyInt int64
func main() {
//…
     var d MyInt = 1
Listing 13.2
Type switch with extra type
For a string, you use
the strconv library to
convert the string to
a float64.
If the type isn’t one
of the four you
support, prints an
error and ignores
MyInt is an int64.
Creates a new
MyInt and gives
it the value 1


CHAPTER 13
Reflection, code generation, and advanced Go
     res := sum(a, b, c, d)
     fmt.Printf("Result: %f\n", res)
}
func sum(v ...interface{}) float64 {
     var res float64 = 0
     for _, val := range v {
            switch val.(type) {
            case int:
                   res += float64(val.(int))
            case int64:
                   res += float64(val.(int64))
            case uint8:
                   res += float64(val.(uint8))
            case string:
                   a, err := strconv.ParseFloat(val.(string), 64)
                   if err != nil {
                          panic(err)
                   }
                   res += a
            default:
                   fmt.Printf("Unsupported type %T. Ignoring.\n", val)
            }
     }
     return res
}
Running this program generates the following output:
$ go run typekind.go
Unsupported type main.MyInt. Ignoring.
Result: 42.200000
The type of var d MyInt isn’t int64; it’s MyInt, which shadows int64. In the type switch,
it matches the default clause instead of the int64 case. At times, this is precisely the
behavior you’d desire. You want Go to assume that int64 might needed to be treated
differently from MyInt. But for this case, it’d be better if sum() could tell what the
underlying kind was and work from that instead.
 The solution to this problem is to use the reflect package and work based on the
broader kind instead of type. The first part of our example will be the same, but the
sum() function is different, as shown in the next listing.
package main
import (
     "fmt"
     "reflect"
     "strconv"
)
type MyInt int64
Listing 13.3
A kind switch
This will not match
for a MyInt.
This will catch
the MyInt value.
