168
CHAPTER 8
Concurrency: Foundations
Figure 8.6
An example of the current state of a Go application executed on a four-core machine. 
Goroutines that aren’t in an executing state are either runnable (pending being executed) or waiting 
(pending a blocking operation).
P0, P1, and P3 are currently busy executing Go runtime threads. But P2 is presently
idle as M3 is switched off P2, and there’s no goroutine to be executed. This isn’t a
good situation because six runnable goroutines are pending being executed, some in
the global queue and some in other local queues. How will the Go runtime handle
this situation? Here’s the scheduling implementation in pseudocode (see http://
mng.bz/lxY8):
runtime.schedule() {
// Only 1/61 of the time, check the global runnable queue for a G.
// If not found, check the local queue.
// If not found,
//
Try to steal from other Ps.
//
If not, check the global runnable queue.
//
If not found, poll network.
}
Every sixty-first execution, the Go scheduler will check whether goroutines from the
global queue are available. If not, it will check its local queue. Meanwhile, if both the
global and local queues are empty, the Go scheduler can pick up goroutines from other
local queues. This principle in scheduling is called work stealing, and it allows an underuti-
lized processor to actively look for another processor’s goroutines and steal some.
 One last important thing to mention: prior to Go 1.14, the scheduler was coopera-
tive, which meant a goroutine could be context-switched off a thread only in specific
blocking cases (for example, channel send or receive, I/O, waiting to acquire a
mutex). Since Go 1.14, the Go scheduler is now preemptive: when a goroutine is run-
ning for a specific amount of time (10 ms), it will be marked preemptible and can be
context-switched off to be replaced by another goroutine. This allows a long-running
job to be forced to share CPU time.
Global queue
P0
M0
Local P0 queue
G (executing)
G (runnable)
G (runnable)
P1
M1
Local P1 queue
G (executing)
M2
G (waiting)
P2
M3
Local P2 queue
P3
M4
Local P3 queue
G (executing)
G (runnable)
G (runnable)
G (runnable)
G (runnable)
