178
CHAPTER 8
Concurrency: Foundations
With these three approaches, the value of i will eventually be set to 2, regardless of
the execution order of the two goroutines. But depending on the operation we want
to perform, does a data-race-free application necessarily mean a deterministic result?
Let’s explore this question with another example.
 Instead of having two goroutines increment a shared variable, now each one
makes an assignment. We will follow the approach of using a mutex to prevent data
races:
i := 0
mutex := sync.Mutex{}
go func() {
mutex.Lock()
defer mutex.Unlock()
i = 1
}()
go func() {
mutex.Lock()
defer mutex.Unlock()
i = 2
}()
The first goroutine assigns 1 to i, whereas the second one assigns 2.
 Is there a data race in this example? No, there isn’t. Both goroutines access the
same variable, but not at the same time, as the mutex protects it. But is this example
deterministic? No, it isn’t.
 Depending on the execution order, i will eventually equal either 1 or 2. This
example doesn’t lead to a data race. But it has a race condition. A race condition occurs
when the behavior depends on the sequence or the timing of events that can’t be con-
trolled. Here, the timing of events is the goroutines’ execution order.
 Ensuring a specific execution sequence among goroutines is a question of coordi-
nation and orchestration. If we want to ensure that we first go from state 0 to state 1,
and then from state 1 to state 2, we should find a way to guarantee that the goroutines
are executed in order. Channels can be a way to solve this problem. Coordinating and
orchestrating can also ensure that a particular section is accessed by only one gorou-
tine, which can also mean removing the mutex in the previous example.
 In summary, when we work in concurrent applications, it’s essential to understand
that a data race is different from a race condition. A data race occurs when multiple
goroutines simultaneously access the same memory location and at least one of them
is writing. A data race means unexpected behavior. However, a data-race-free applica-
tion doesn’t necessarily mean deterministic results. An application can be free of data
races but still have behavior that depends on uncontrolled events (such as goroutine
execution, how fast a message is published to a channel, or how long a call to a data-
base lasts); this is a race condition. Understanding both concepts is crucial to becom-
ing proficient in designing concurrent applications.
The first goroutine 
assigns 1 to i.
The second goroutine 
assigns 2 to i.
