173
8.3
#57: Being puzzled about when to use channels or mutexes
8.3
#57: Being puzzled about when to use channels or 
mutexes
Given a concurrency problem, it may not always be clear whether we can implement a
solution using channels or mutexes. Because Go promotes sharing memory by com-
munication, one mistake could be to always force the use of channels, regardless of
the use case. However, we should see the two options as complementary. This section
clarifies when we should favor one option over the other. The goal is not to discuss
every possible use case (that would probably take an entire chapter) but to give gen-
eral guidelines that can help us decide.
 First, a brief reminder about channels in Go: channels are a communication mech-
anism. Internally, a channel is a pipe we can use to send and receive values and that
allows us to connect concurrent goroutines. A channel can be either of the following:
Unbuffered—The sender goroutine blocks until the receiver goroutine is ready.
Buffered—The sender goroutine blocks only when the buffer is full.
Let’s get back to our initial problem. When should we use channels or mutexes? We
will use the example in figure 8.8 as a backbone. Our example has three different
goroutines with specific relationships:
G1 and G2 are parallel goroutines. They may be two goroutines executing the
same function that keeps receiving messages from a channel, or perhaps two
goroutines executing the same HTTP handler at the same time.
On the other hand, G1 and G3 are concurrent goroutines, as are G2 and G3.
All the goroutines are part of an overall concurrent structure, but G1 and G2
perform the first step, whereas G3 does the next step.
In general, parallel goroutines have to synchronize: for example, when they need to
access or mutate a shared resource such as a slice. Synchronization is enforced with
mutexes but not with any channel types (not with buffered channels). Hence, in gen-
eral, synchronization between parallel goroutines should be achieved via mutexes.
G1
G2
G3
Parallel goroutines
Concurrent goroutines
Concurrent goroutines
Figure 8.8
Goroutines G1 and 
G2 are parallel, whereas G2 and 
G3 are concurrent.
