186
CHAPTER 8
Concurrency: Foundations
 This global picture cannot be designed and requested by us (Go developers). How-
ever, as we have seen, we can enable it with favorable conditions in the case of CPU-
bound workloads: having a worker pool based on GOMAXPROCS.
NOTE
If, given particular conditions, we want the number of goroutines to be
bound to the number of CPU cores, why not rely on runtime.NumCPU(),
which returns the number of logical CPU cores? As we mentioned, GOMAX-
PROCS can be changed and can be less than the number of CPU cores. In the
case of a CPU-bound workload, if the number of cores is four but we have
only three threads, we should spin up three goroutines, not four. Otherwise, a
thread will share its execution time among two goroutines, increasing the
number of context switches.
When implementing the worker-pooling pattern, we have seen that the optimal num-
ber of goroutines in the pool depends on the workload type. If the workload executed
by the workers is I/O-bound, the value mainly depends on the external system. Con-
versely, if the workload is CPU-bound, the optimal number of goroutines is close to
the number of available threads. Knowing the workload type (I/O or CPU) is crucial
when designing concurrent applications.
 Last but not least, let’s bear in mind that we should validate our assumptions via
benchmarks in most cases. Concurrency isn’t straightforward, and it can be pretty easy
to make hasty assumptions that turn out to be invalid.
 In the last section of this chapter, we discuss a crucial topic that we must under-
stand to be proficient in Go: contexts. 
8.6
#60: Misunderstanding Go contexts
Developers sometimes misunderstand the context.Context type despite it being one
of the key concepts of the language and a foundation of concurrent code in Go. Let’s
look at this concept and be sure we understand why and how to use it efficiently.
 According to the official documentation (https://pkg.go.dev/context):
A Context carries a deadline, a cancellation signal, and other values across API
boundaries.
Let’s examine this definition and understand all the concepts related to a Go context.
8.6.1
Deadline
A deadline refers to a specific point in time determined with one of the following:
A time.Duration from now (for example, in 250 ms)
A time.Time (for example, 2023-02-07 00:00:00 UTC)
The semantics of a deadline convey that an ongoing activity should be stopped if this
deadline is met. An activity is, for example, an I/O request or a goroutine waiting to
receive a message from a channel.
 Let’s consider an application that receives flight positions from a radar every four
seconds. Once we receive a position, we want to share it with other applications that
