245
Don’t panic
28.4.1 Exceptions in other languages
Exceptions differ significantly from Go’s error values in both behavior and implementa-
tion.
If a function throws an exception and no one is around to catch it, the exception will 
bubble up to the calling function, and the caller of that function, and so on, until it 
reaches the top of the call stack  (for example, the main function).
Exceptions are a style of error handling that can be considered opt-in. It often takes no 
code to opt out of handling exceptions, whereas opting in to exception handling may 
involve a fair amount of specialized code. This is because instead of using existing lan-
guage features, exceptions tend to have special keywords, such as try, catch, throw, finally, 
raise, rescue, except, and so on.
Error values in Go provide a simple, flexible alternative to exceptions that can help you 
build reliable software. Ignoring error values in Go is a conscious decision that is plainly 
evident to anyone reading the resulting code.   
28.4.2 How to panic
As mentioned, Go does have a mechanism similar to exceptions: panic. Whereas an 
invalid digit in Sudoku may be cause for an exception in another language, panic in Go is 
rare.
If the world is about to end, and you forgot your trusty towel back on Earth, then per-
haps panic is warranted. The argument passed to panic can be any type, not only strings 
as shown here:
panic("I forgot my towel")
NOTE Though error values are generally preferable to panic, panic is often better than
os.Exit in that panic will run any deferred functions, whereas os.Exit does not.
There are some situations where Go will panic instead of providing an error value, such 
as when dividing by zero:
Quick check 28.9 What are two benefits of Go’s error values as compared to exceptions?
QC 28.9 answer Go pushes developers to consider errors, which can result in more reliable soft-
ware, whereas exceptions tend to be ignored by default. Error values don’t require specialized keywords,
making them simpler, while also being more flexible.
 
