118
CHAPTER 5
Strings
s := "hêllo"
r := []rune(s)[4]
fmt.Printf("%c\n", r) // o
This code prints the fourth rune by first converting the string into a rune slice.
In summary, if we want to iterate over a string’s runes, we can use the range loop on
the string directly. But we have to recall that the index corresponds not to the rune
index but rather to the starting index of the byte sequence of the rune. Because a
rune can be composed of multiple bytes, if we want to access the rune itself, we should
use the value variable of range, not the index in the string. Meanwhile, if we are inter-
ested in getting the ith rune of a string, we should convert the string into a slice of
runes in most cases.
 In the next section, we look at a common source of confusion when using trim
functions in the strings package. 
5.3
#38: Misusing trim functions
One common mistake made by Go developers when using the strings package is to
mix TrimRight and TrimSuffix. Both functions serve a similar purpose, and it can be
fairly easy to confuse them. Let’s take a look.
 In the following example, we use TrimRight. What should be the output of this code?
fmt.Println(strings.TrimRight("123oxo", "xo"))
The answer is 123. Is that what you expected? If not, you were probably expecting the
result of TrimSuffix, instead. Let’s review both functions.
   TrimRight removes all the trailing runes contained in a given set. In our example,
we passed as a set xo, which contains two runes: x and o. Figure 5.2 shows the logic.
A possible optimization to access a specific rune
One optimization is possible if a string is composed of single-byte runes: for example,
if the string contains the letters A to Z and a to z. We can access the ith rune without
converting the whole string into a slice of runes by accessing the byte directly using
s[i]:
s := "hello"
fmt.Printf("%c\n", rune(s[4])) // o
123oxo
o is part of the set, remove 
x is part of the set, remove 
o is part of the set, remove 
3 is not part of the set, stop 
123ox
123o
123
Figure 5.2
TrimRight iterates backward 
until it finds a rune that is not part of the set.
