114
CHAPTER 5
Strings
that sometimes we can work directly with []byte, avoiding extra allocations. Finally,
we will discuss how to avoid a common mistake that can create leaks from substrings.
The primary goal of this chapter is to help you understand how strings work in Go by
presenting common string mistakes.
5.1
#36: Not understanding the concept of a rune
We couldn’t start this chapter about strings without discussing the concept of the rune
in Go. As you will see in the following sections, this concept is key to thoroughly
understanding how strings are handled and avoiding common mistakes. But before
delving into Go runes, we need to make sure we are aligned about some fundamental
programming concepts.
 We should understand the distinction between a charset and an encoding:
A charset, as the name suggests, is a set of characters. For example, the Unicode
charset contains 2^21 characters.
An encoding is the translation of a character’s list in binary. For example, UTF-
8 is an encoding standard capable of encoding all the Unicode characters in a
variable number of bytes (from 1 to 4 bytes).
We mentioned characters to simplify the charset definition. But in Unicode, we use
the concept of a code point to refer to an item represented by a single value. For exam-
ple, the 汉 character is identified by the U+6C49 code point. Using UTF-8, 汉 is
encoded using three bytes: 0xE6, 0xB1, and 0x89. Why is this important? Because in
Go, a rune is a Unicode code point.
 Meanwhile, we mentioned that UTF-8 encodes characters into 1 to 4 bytes, hence,
up to 32 bits. This is why in Go, a rune is an alias of int32:
type rune = int32
Another thing to highlight about UTF-8: some people believe that Go strings are
always UTF-8, but this isn’t true. Let’s consider the following example:
s := "hello"
We assign a string literal (a string constant) to s. In Go, a source code is encoded in
UTF-8. So, all string literals are encoded into a sequence of bytes using UTF-8. How-
ever, a string is a sequence of arbitrary bytes; it’s not necessarily based on UTF-8.
Hence, when we manipulate a variable that wasn’t initialized from a string literal (for
example, reading from the filesystem), we can’t necessarily assume that it uses the
UTF-8 encoding.
NOTE
golang.org/x, a repository that provides extensions to the standard
library, contains packages to work with UTF-16 and UTF-32.
Let’s get back to the hello example. We have a string composed of five characters: h,
e, l, l, and o.
