170
CHAPTER 7
Concurrency patterns
Creating error interface variables is a common practice in Go. This allows the caller
to identify specific returned error values from any function or method within the
package. The error interface variable in listing 7.16 has been declared to report when
the user calls the Acquire method and the Pool has been closed. Since the Acquire
method can return multiple different errors, returning this error variable when the
Pool is closed allows the caller to identify this specific error over others. 
 With the Pool type and the error interface variable declared, we can start to look
at the functions and methods that are declared in the pool package. Let’s start with
the pool’s factory function, named New.
26 // New creates a pool that manages resources. A pool requires a
27 // function that can allocate a new resource and the size of
28 // the pool.
29 func New(fn func() (io.Closer, error), size uint) (*Pool, error) {
30
if size <= 0 {
31
return nil, errors.New("Size value too small.")
32
}
33
34
return &Pool{
35
factory:
fn,
36
resources: make(chan io.Closer, size),
37
}, nil
38 }
The New function in listing 7.17 accepts two parameters and returns two values. The
first parameter, fn, is declared as a function type that accepts no parameters and
returns an io.Closer and an error interface value. The function parameter repre-
sents a factory function that creates values of the resource being managed by the pool.
The second parameter, size, represents the size of the buffered channel created to
hold the resources. 
 On line 30 the value of size is checked to make sure it’s not less than or equal to 0.
If it is, then the code returns nil for the returned pool pointer value and then creates
an error interface value on the fly for the error. Since this is the only error being
returned from this function, it’s not necessary to create and use an error interface
variable for this error. If the size value is good, then a new Pool value is created and
initialized. On line 35 the function parameter is assigned, and on line 36 the buffered
channel is created using the size value. Everything can be created and initialized
within the scope of the return statement. So a pointer to the new Pool value and the
error interface value of nil are created and returned as the arguments. 
 With the ability to create and initialize a Pool value, next let’s look at the Acquire
method. This method allows the caller to acquire a resource from the pool.
Listing 7.17
pool/pool.go: lines 26–38
