261
Channel surfing with select
TIP When there are no cases in the select statement, it will wait forever. That might be
useful to stop the main function returning when you’ve started some goroutines that you
want to leave running indefinitely.
This isn’t very interesting when all the gophers are sleeping for exactly three seconds, 
because our patience always runs out before any gophers wake up. The gophers in the 
next listing sleep for a random amount of time. When you run this, you’ll find that some 
gophers wake up in time, but others don’t.
func sleepyGopher(id int, c chan int) {
    time.Sleep(time.Duration(rand.Intn(4000)) * time.Millisecond)
    c <- id 
}
TIP This pattern is useful whenever you want to limit the amount of time spent doing
something. By putting the action inside a goroutine and sending on a channel when it com-
pletes, anything in Go can be timed out.
NOTE Although we’ve stopped waiting for the goroutines, if we haven’t returned from the
main function, they’ll still be sitting around using up memory. It’s good practice to tell them to
finish, if possible.
So far, all has been well. When our main function received on the channel, it found a 
gopher sending a value on the channel. But what would happen if we accidentally tried 
to read when there were no goroutines left to send? Or if we tried to send on a channel 
instead of receive?
Listing 30.6 A randomly sleeping gopher: select2.go
Nil channels do nothing
Because you need to create channels explicitly with make, you may wonder what happens
if you use channel values that haven’t been “made.” As with maps, slices, and pointers,
channels can be nil. In fact, nil is their default zero value.
If you try to use a nil channel, it won’t panic—instead, the operation (send or receive) will
block forever, like a channel that nothing ever receives from or sends to. The exception
to this is close (covered later in this lesson). If you try to close a nil channel, it will panic.
At first glance, that may not seem very useful, but it can be surprisingly helpful. Consider
a loop containing a select statement. We may not want to wait for all the channels men-
tioned in the select every time through the loop. For example, we might only try to send
on a channel when we have a value ready to send. We can do that by using a channel
variable that’s only non-nil when we want to send a value.
 
