254
Lesson 30  Goroutines and concurrency
busy with her own tasks and not bothering with anyone else’s. Go programs are more 
often like a whole factory, with many independent tasks all doing their own thing, but 
communicating with each other towards some common goal. These concurrent tasks 
might include fetching data from a web server, computing millions of digits of pi, or 
controlling a robot arm.
In Go, an independently running task is known as a goroutine. In this lesson, you’ll learn 
how to start as many goroutines as you like and communicate between them with chan-
nels. Goroutines are similar to coroutines, fibers, processes, or threads in other languages, 
although they’re not quite the same as any of those. They’re very efficient to create, and 
Go makes it straightforward to coordinate many concurrent operations. 
30.1 Starting a goroutine
Starting a goroutine is as easy as calling a function. All you need is the go keyword in 
front of the call.
The goroutine in listing 30.1 is similar to our sleepy gopher in the corner of the factory. 
He doesn’t do much, though where that Sleep statement is, he could be doing some seri-
ous thought (computation) instead. When the main function returns, all the goroutines in 
the program are immediately stopped, so we need to wait long enough to see the sleepy 
gopher print his “… snore …” message. We’ll wait for a little bit longer than necessary 
just to make sure.
Consider this Consider writing a program that performs a sequence of actions. Each
action might take a long time and could involve waiting for something to happen before
it’s done. It could be written as straightforward, sequential code. But what if you want to
do two or more of those sequences at the same time?
For example, you might want one part of your program to go through a list of email
addresses and send an email for each one, while another task waits for incoming email
and stores them in a database. How would you write that?
In some languages, you would need to change the code quite a bit. But in Go, you can
use exactly the same kind of code for each independent task. Goroutines enable you to
run any number of actions at the same time.
 
