11
HTTP request
1.5.2
Safe request methods
A method is considered safe if it doesn’t change the state of the server—that is, the
server provides only information and nothing else. GET, HEAD, OPTIONS, and TRACE
are safe methods because they aren’t supposed to change anything on the server. In
comparison, POST, PUT, and DELETE methods do change the state of the server; for
example, after a POST request is sent, data at the server is supposed to be changed.
1.5.3
Idempotent request methods
A method is considered idempotent if the state of the server doesn’t change the second
time the method is called with the same data. Safe methods by definition are consid-
ered idempotent as well (though obviously not the other way around).  
PUT and DELETE are idempotent but not safe. This is because PUT and DELETE
don’t change the state of the server the second time they’re called. PUT with the same
resource will result in the same actions being taken by the server, because after the
first request the resource at the URI is either already updated or created. DELETE with
the same resource might result in an error by the server, but the state doesn’t change.
POST is neither a safe nor an idempotent method because subsequent POST
requests to the server might (or might not) result in a state change, depending on the
server. Idempotency is an important idea that we’ll revisit when we talk about web ser-
vices in chapter 7.
1.5.4
Browser support for request methods
GET is the most fundamental HTTP method, and it’s supported with all browsers
because it’s how you actually get content from the server. POST support started with
HTML 2.0 with the addition of HTML forms. The HTML form tag has an attribute,
method, that accepts either the value get or post that indicates which HTTP method
you want to use.
HTML doesn’t support any other HTTP methods besides GET and POST. In early
drafts of HTML5, PUT and DELETE support were added as values in the HTML form
method attribute, but it was taken out again.
 Modern browsers do more than just HTML, though. To support PUT and DELETE,
you can use XMLHttpRequest (XHR). XHR is a set of browser APIs (actually, it’s mostly
just a browser object called XMLHttpRequest) with JavaScript code usually wrapped
around it. XHR allows programmers to send HTTP requests to the server and, despite
its name, isn’t limited to using XML only. Requests and responses can be sent in any
format, including JSON and text files. 
1.5.5
Request headers
Although the HTTP request method defines the action requested by the calling client,
other information on the request or the client is often placed in HTTP request head-
ers. Request headers are colon-separated name-value pairs in plain text, terminated by
a carriage return (CR) and line feed (LF). 
