4
CHAPTER 1
Go and web applications
1.1
Using Go for web applications 
So why should you use Go for writing web applications? My guess is, having bought
this book, you have an inclination to find out the answer. Of course, as the author of a
book that teaches Go web programming, I believe there are strong and compelling
reasons to do so. As you continue reading this book, you’ll get a sense of Go’s
strengths in web application development and, I hope, agree with me about the use-
fulness of Go.
 Go is a relatively new programming language, with a thriving and growing commu-
nity. It is well suited for writing server-side programs that are fast. It’s simple and famil-
iar to most programmers who are used to procedural programming, but it also
provides features of functional programming. It supports concurrency by default, has
a modern packaging system, does garbage collection, and has an extensive and power-
ful set of built-in standard libraries. 
 Plenty of good-quality open source libraries are available that can supplement what
the standard libraries don’t have, but the standard libraries that come with Go are
quite comprehensive and wide-ranging. This book sticks to the standard libraries as
much as possible but will occasionally use third-party, open source libraries to show
alternative and creative ways the open source community has come up with.
 Go is rapidly gaining popularity as a web development language. Many companies,
including infrastructure companies like Dropbox and SendGrid, technology-oriented
companies such as Square and Hailo, as well as more traditional companies such as
BBC and The New York Times, have already started using Go. 
 Go provides a viable alternative to existing languages and platforms for developing
large-scale web applications. Large-scale web applications typically need to be
■
Scalable 
■
Modular 
■
Maintainable 
■
High-performance 
Let’s take a look at these attributes in detail.
1.1.1
Scalable web applications and Go
Large-scale web applications should be scalable. This means you should be able to
quickly and easily increase the capacity of the application to take on a bigger volume
of requests. The application should scale also linearly, meaning you should be able to
add more hardware and process a corresponding number of requests. 
 We can look at scaling in two ways:
■
Vertical scaling, or increasing the amount of CPUs or capacity in a single machine 
■
Horizontal scaling, or increasing the number of machines to expand capacity 
Go scales well vertically with its excellent support for concurrent programming. A sin-
gle Go web application with a single OS thread can be scheduled to run hundreds of
thousands of goroutines with efficiency and performance. 
