16
CHAPTER 1
Go and web applications
1.8
Introducing HTTP/2
HTTP/2, the new version of HTTP, focuses on performance. HTTP/2 is based on
SPDY/2, an open networking protocol developed primarily at Google for transporting
web content, though over time there have been a number of changes. 
HTTP/2 is a binary protocol, unlike HTTP/1.x, which is text-based. This makes
HTTP/2 more efficient to parse, and it is more compact and less prone for errors. But
that means you can no longer send HTTP/2 messages directly through the network,
through applications such as telnet, and so it is harder to debug if you’re used to
HTTP/1.x.
 Unlike HTTP/1.x, which only allows a single request on a connection at a time,
HTTP/2 is fully multiplexed. This means multiple requests and responses can be using
the same connection at the same time. HTTP/2 also compresses the header to reduce
overhead and allows the server to push responses to the client, generally improving
performance.
 As you can see, HTTP/2 generally improves the communications performance of
the protocol. What is not changed, are the HTTP semantics; for example, the HTTP
methods, status codes, and so on. This is because HTTP is so widely used, and any
change to the semantics would break the existing web.
 In Go 1.6, if you’re using HTTPS, you’ll be automatically using HTTP/2. For earlier
versions of Go, the golang.org/x/net/http2 package implements the HTTP/2 proto-
col. You will see how it can be used in chapter 3.
1.9
Parts of a web app
From the previous sections you’ve seen that a web application is a piece of program
that does the following:
1
Takes input through HTTP from the client in the form of an HTTP request
message
2
Processes the HTTP request message and performs necessary work
3
Generates HTML and returns it in an HTTP response message
As a result, there are two distinct parts of a web app: the handlers and the template
engine. 
1.9.1
Handler
A handler receives and processes the HTTP request sent from the client. It also calls the
template engine to generate the HTML and finally bundles data into the HTTP
response to be sent back to the client. 
 In the MVC pattern the handler is the controller, but also the model. In an ideal
MVC pattern implementation, the controller would be thin, with only routing and
HTTP message unpacking and packing logic. The models are fat, containing the appli-
cation logic and data. 
