258
CHAPTER 11
Reflection and code generation
            case reflect.Int, reflect.Int64:
                   res += float64(ref.Int())
            case reflect.Uint8:
                   res += float64(ref.Uint())
            case reflect.String:
                   a, err := strconv.ParseFloat(ref.String(), 64)
                   if err != nil {
                          panic(err)
                   }
                   res += a
            default:
                   fmt.Printf("Unsupported type %T. Ignoring.\n", val)
            }
     }
     return res
}
In this revised version, you replace the type switch with a regular value-based switch,
and you use the reflect package to take each val interface{} and get a reflect
.Value describing it. One of the pieces of information you can learn from a
reflect.Value is its underlying kind.
 Another thing that the reflect.Value type gives you is a group of functions capa-
ble of converting related types to their largest representation. A reflect.Value with a
uint8 or uint16 can be easily converted to the biggest unsigned integer type by using
the reflect.Value’s Uint() method.
 With these features, you can collapse an otherwise verbose type switch to a more
concise kind-based switch. Instead of needing 10 cases for the integer types, you could
accomplish the same feature with only two cases (one for all the signed integers, and
one for the unsigned integers).
 But types and kinds are distinct things. Here, you’ve produced two cases that per-
form approximately the same task. Summing numeric values can be more easily done
by determining kinds. But sometimes you’re more concerned with specifics. As you’ve
seen elsewhere in the book, type switches are excellent companions for error han-
dling. You can use them to sort out different error types in much the same way that
other languages use multiple catch statements in a try/catch block.
 Later in this chapter, we return to examining types. In that case, you’ll use the
reflect.Type type to discover information about a struct. But before you get to that
case, let’s look at another common reflection task: determining whether a particular
type implements an interface.
TECHNIQUE 67
Discovering whether a value implements an interface
Go’s type system is different from the inheritance-based methods of traditional object-
oriented languages. Go uses composition instead of inheritance. A Go interface
defines a pattern of methods that another type must have before it can be considered
to implement that interface. A concrete and simple example might help here. The
reflect.Kind is
a normal type,
so you can
switch on
multiple
values.
The reflect.Value type provides convenience
functions for converting related subkinds to their
biggest version (e.g., int, int8, int16…to int64).
