265
TECHNIQUE 68
Accessing fields on a struct
Along with the value of u, you need some type and kind information. In this example,
you get each of the three reflection types:
The value (in this case, if you get a pointer for a value, you follow the pointer)
The type
The kind
Kinds are particularly interesting in this case. Some kinds, notably slices, arrays, maps,
and structs, may have members. In this case, you’re interested mainly in learning
about the structure of your given value (u). Although you wouldn’t need to enumer-
ate the values in maps, slices, or arrays, you’d like to examine structs. If the kind is
reflect.Struct, you take a look at that struct’s fields.
 The easiest way to enumerate the fields of a struct is to get the type of that struct and
then loop through the fields of that type by using a combination of Type.NumField()
(which gives you the number of fields) and Type.Field(). The Type.Field() method
returns a reflect.StructField object describing the field. From there, you can learn
about the field’s data type and its name.
 But when it comes to getting the value of a struct field, you can’t get this from
either the reflect.Type (which describes the data type) or the reflect.StructField
(which describes the field on a struct type). Instead, you need to get the value from
the reflect.Value that describes the struct value. Fortunately, you can combine your
knowledge of the type and the value to know that the numeric index of the type field
will match the numeric index of the value’s struct field. You can use Value.Field()
with the same field number as Type.Field(), and get the associated value for that
field. Again, if the field is a pointer, you’d rather have a handle to the value at the
other end of the pointer, so you call reflect.Indirect() on the field value. If you
take a look at the output of the preceding program, you’ll see this in action:
Field "Name" is type "*main.Name" (struct)
Value is type "main.Name" (struct)
The field Name is of type *main.Name. But when you follow the pointer, you get a value
of type main.Name. This little program is dense, so to summarize what you’ve just seen:
From interface{}, you can use reflect.ValueOf() to get reflect.Value.
Sometimes a value might be a pointer. To follow the pointer and get the
reflect.Value of the thing pointed to, you call reflect.Indirect().
From reflect.Value, you can conveniently get the type and kind.
For structs (kind == reflect.Struct), you can get the number of fields on
that struct by using Type.NumField(), and you can get a description of each
field (reflect.StructField) by using Type.Field().
Likewise, with reflect.Value objects, you can access struct field values by using
Value.Field().
If you were interested in discovering other information, the reflect package con-
tains tools for learning about the methods on a struct, the elements in maps, lists,
